# Graphic Design &lt; College of the Sequoias

URL: https://web.archive.org/web/20210922013152/https://catalog.cos.edu/areas-study/graphic-design/
Source: web.archive.org
Fetched: 20260603-043833
Cycle: 1
Quality: 0.85
Body: 11543 chars, ~1751 words

## Design signals
- top_colors: —
- fonts: —
- designers_mentioned: —
- gradients: 0

## Body

Graphic Design < College of the Sequoias 20 captures 28 Aug 2017 - 16 Mar 2026 Aug SEP Oct 22 2020 2021 2022 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Collection: Common Crawl Web crawl data from Common Crawl. TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20210922013152/https://catalog.cos.edu/areas-study/graphic-design/ 2021-2022 Academic Catalog Graphic Design Division: Industry & Technology Graphic Design is an academic discipline concerned with the study of graphic design, graphic art, computers, and art. This academic discipline prepares students for entry-level employment and/or potential further study in the field of graphic design. The skills developed in this discipline include graphic design, web page design, Adobe Illustrator, Adobe PhotoShop, and Adobe InDesign. Transfer requirements in graphic design are available in the Counseling Center. In all cases, students should consult with a counselor for specific transfer requirements. Career options include positions in graphic design & graphic art. A higher degree may be required to meet minimum job requirements depending on the position. Contact Information Graphic Design Faculty Contact Rolando Gonzalez | (559) 688-3120 | rolandog@cos.edu Industry and Technology Division Chair Randy Emery | (559) 688-3180 | randye@cos.edu Tulare Center Building C: Room C | Tulare Campus Dean of CTE and Workforce Development Jonna Schengel, Ed.D, MA, PT | (559) 688-3027 | jonnas@cos.edu Tulare College Center | Building A 107 | Tulare Campus Associate Degree Associate of Science in Graphic Design (AS) Certificates Certificate of Achievement in Graphic Design Skill Certificate in Adobe Illustrator Skill Certificate in Adobe InDesign Skill Certificate in Adobe Photoshop Skill Certificate in Autodesk Maya For a complete list of courses and descriptions visit: COURSES GD 100 Introduction to Graphic Design 4 unit(s) Hours: 3 Lecture/Discussion Hours: 3 Lab This course covers a brief history of graphic design and printing as well as an introduction to multi-media communication. Students will also study the prevalence and purpose of graphic design and the applied arts in general. Students will carry out hands-on projects learning to apply aesthetic, typographic, and cultural elements to enhance visual communication. This course will introduce students to the three major, industry-standard design programs, Adobe Creative Suite: Illustrator, Photoshop and InDesign. Advisory on Recommended Preparation: ART 006 and ART 008 or equivalent college courses with a minimum grade of C. GD 101 Graphic Design I 3 unit(s) Hours: 2 Lecture/Discussion Hours: 3 Lab This class will cover the basics of creating various graphic design projects. Students will learn fundamentals and theory of visual communication. Students will receive an overview of design terminology as well as technical terms relating to the software. Basic typography, color theory and composition will be explored in each project. Projects will include basic layout design and grid systems, logo design, corporate identity systems and poster/ad layout as well as basic technical illustration assignments. Software used will be primarily Adobe Illustrator. Advisory on Recommended Preparation: ART 006, ART 008, and GD 100 or equivalent college course with a minimum grade of C. GD 102 Digital Imaging Design I 3 unit(s) Hours: 2 Lecture/Discussion Hours: 3 Lab In this course, students will learn about the many resources, tools, filters and techniques that are used in the graphics and advertising industry for the creation and manipulation of digital painting and photo editing. Students will complete projects that will cover the processes of illustrating, designing, retouching and manipulating photographs. Primary software for this course is Adobe Photoshop. Advisory on Recommended Preparation: ART 006 and ART 008 or equivalent college course with a minimum grade of C. GD 151 Independent Study - GD 1 - 4 unit(s) Hours: 3 - 12 Lab The purpose of this independent study is to provide an opportunity for students, under the direction of an instructor, to participate in advanced individualized studies to supplement and enhance existing courses. Independent Study requires a minimum of 52.5 hours of academic work per unit. In addition, student must file an Independent Study form through the Admissions Office to obtain approval to enroll. Advisory on Recommended Preparation: GD 159 or equivalent college course with a minimum grade of C. GD 164 Digital Animation 1 4 unit(s) Hours: 3 Lecture/Discussion Hours: 3 Lab This is a graphic design course in beginning digital animation utilizing Autodesk Maya computer program. Course content includes an understanding of the tools and navigation necessary to create 3-D animations that can be applied to a wide variety of industries including multimedia, interactive, gaming and web graphics, as well as production CG. GD 165 Digital Animation 2 4 unit(s) Hours: 3 Lecture/Discussion Hours: 3 Lab This is an intermediate graphic design course in digital animation using the Maya computer program that builds upon the basic skills learned in GD 164. Course content will provide students with intermediate and advanced level understanding of Maya tools and techniques necessary to create 3-D models, renderings, and animations that can be applied to a wide variety of industries including multimedia, interactive, gaming and web graphics, as well as production CG. Advisory on Recommended Preparation: GD 164 or equivalent college course with a minimum grade of C. GD 203 Publication Design I 3 unit(s) Hours: 2 Lecture/Discussion Hours: 3 Lab This course introduces students to the process of designing and creating business forms, calendars and various multiple-page/multiple-panel documents. Projects will educate students in the usage of tab and table construction, placing and sizing graphics and creating text wrap effects around photos, images and objects, as well as importing text and graphic files from various sources. Advisory on Recommended Preparation: ART 008, GD 100, GD 101, and GD 102 or equivalent college courses with a minimum grade of C. GD 204 Graphic Design II 3 unit(s) Hours: 2 Lecture/Discussion Hours: 3 Lab Students will further develop creative thinking and problem solving strategies. The course familiarizes students with advanced design principles, essential software, and techniques that serve design needs while assisting the preparation of artwork for print, web and other media outcomes. Students will also develop methods of analysis for critiques and portfolio assembly. Primary software in this course: Adobe Illustrator, Adobe Photoshop and Adobe InDesign. Advisory on Recommended Preparation: ART 006, ART 008, GD 100, GD 101, or equivalent college courses with a minimum grade of C. GD 205 Digital Imaging Design II 3 unit(s) Hours: 2 Lecture/Discussion Hours: 3 Lab Students in this course will learn advanced applications of Adobe Photoshop. They will learn advanced concepts of digital imaging, including editing, optimizing, and a variety of image file formats. Students will learn to prepare images for press, web-based applications, television/video, and mobile devices. Topics will include: color adjustments, color formats, color space, various special effects and compositing. Advisory on Recommended Preparation: ART 025, GD 100, and GD 102 or equivalent college courses with a minimum grade of C. GD 206 Publication Design II 3 unit(s) Hours: 2 Lecture/Discussion Hours: 3 Lab This course covers the use of publication software in advanced applications. Students will design a variety of projects including multiple page documents such as annual reports, magazines and books. Students will learn production methods, such as: comprehensive sketches, pre-press preparation, color separations, color management, and various printing processes. The course will cover advanced use of Style Sheets, Paragraph Styles, Preflight and Packaging docum
