# How and Why to Do Rough Thumbnail Sketches of Layouts in Desktop Publishing

URL: https://web.archive.org/web/20131206171848/http://desktoppub.about.com/cs/basic/a/thumbnails.htm?terms=squiggle
Source: web.archive.org
Fetched: 20260603-044054
Cycle: 1
Quality: 0.88
Body: 7383 chars, ~1183 words

## Design signals
- top_colors: —
- fonts: —
- designers_mentioned: —
- gradients: 0

## Body

How and Why to Do Rough Thumbnail Sketches of Layouts in Desktop Publishing 32 captures 05 Feb 2008 - 05 Aug 2025 Nov DEC Jan 06 2012 2013 2014 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Organization: Internet Archive These crawls are part of an effort to archive pages as they are created and archive the pages that they refer to. That way, as the pages that are referenced are changed or taken from the web, a link to the version that was live when the page was written will be preserved. Then the Internet Archive hopes that references to these archived pages will be put in place of a link that would be otherwise be broken, or a companion link to allow people to see what was originally intended by a page's authors. The goal is to fix all broken links on the web. Crawls of supported "No More 404" sites. Collection: Wikipedia Near Real Time (from IRC) This is a collection of web page captures from links added to, or changed on, Wikipedia pages. The idea is to bring a reliability to Wikipedia outlinks so that if the pages referenced by Wikipedia articles are changed, or go away, a reader can permanently find what was originally referred to. This is part of the Internet Archive's attempt to rid the web of broken links. TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20131206171848/http://desktoppub.about.com/cs/basic/a/thumbnails.htm?terms=squiggle Computing Desktop Publishing Desktop Publishing Start Here Pick a Project Get a Template Share Discuss in my forum Sketch This! • Do Thumbnail Sketches Explore Design Ideas Quickly with Rough Thumbnail Sketches By Jacci Howard Bear Business card thumbnail sketches illustration by Jacci Bear More Images (2) See More About thumbnail sketches brainstorming document design page layout Use thumbnail sketches to explore layout options. Thumbnail sketches are rough drawings, sometimes only comprehensible to the designer. These quick pen or pencil sketches allow the designer to try out several ideas and zero in on the most likely layouts before beginning a project. Creating thumbnail sketches is a crucial part of the brainstorming aspect of your design work. Don't discount the value of this step in the design process. Examples of Thumbnail Sketches See the sidebar photo gallery for two images of types of thumbnail sketches. In the first example of thumbnail sketches, the E logo (lower right corner) is represented by a simple box and lines represent the text for a few business card layout ideas. The second image of thumbnail sketches in the gallery shows a variety of thumbnail sketches depicting one and two page layouts, perhaps for a newsletter. Shaded boxes or a bunch of quick, parallel lines stand in for columns of text, darker boxes for photos or artwork, and lines and squiggles of varying thickness represent headlines, subheads, etc. Designing with Thumbnail Sketches Don't fret over details. Use thumbnails to establish approximate locations for major elements. (the examples described above may actually be "too perfect" — don't worry about making "pretty" pictures.) Try for an approximately proportional page size (if doing sketches for a full page layout) but don't get out the ruler. You're aiming for a general idea of how the piece might look. Make lots of rough sketches. Repeat: lots of sketches. You'll rule out many design ideas quickly this way before wasting time in your page layout program. Don't try doing these initial rough designs in your software, even if using dummy text and placeholder graphics. You're apt to get caught up in things like changing the fonts or doing perfectly aligned graphics. Save that step til after you've done the initial brainstorming for ideas with thumbnails. What Others Say About Thumbnail Sketches About.com Graphic Design (earlier Guide) "These sketches only have meaning to me. I often write notes to myself so I can figure out what I meant to do, even if I can't figure out what the drawing means several days later." — Judy Litt, A logo makeover from rough sketch to finished product. Computers Help and Hinder Design "...designers are encouraged to do rough thumbnail sketches in pencil in the conceptual stages of a project, based on the theory that working on the polished images that can be created on the computer actually inhibits initial experimentation." — If you think thumbnails are a waste of time, read this from American City Business Journals Inc. Creative Thinking "Thumbnails. Repeat after me: Thumbnails. At the onset of any project, think about how it will look by quickly scribbling out shapes into a very small space." — Fred Showker, First 2 steps in a 5 step process with an assignment to help you use these ideas. POLL: Do you do thumbnail sketches before starting computer work on a project? 1) Yes, most of the time. 2) If I'm not in a hurry. 3) Usually only on complicated projects 4) No, I don't find it useful. 5) No, it never occured to me to do so. View Results of Thumbnail Sketches Poll The Desktop Document > Design Phase > Thumbnail Sketches Get Started:Basic Guidelines and Requirements for Desktop Publishing Choose Software:Desktop Publishing and Design Software Make Something: Things to Make Using Desktop Publishing Tips & Tutorials:How to Do Desktop Publishing Training, Education, Jobs:Careers in Desktop Publishing In the Classroom: Back to School With Desktop Publishing Use Templates: Templates for Print and Web Publishing Readers Respond: Your #1 Rule or Best Practice for Page Layout Read responses (14) State Your Rule Terms and Techniques Related to Thumbnail Sketches Dummy and Comp Comp, Composite Page Layout Using Thumbnail Sketches in Drawing Thumbnail Sketching - Shorthand Drawing for Artists Sketchbook Ideas and Project Starters How to Keep a Sketchbook Related Articles Thumbnail As Used in Desktop Publishing Thumbnail Sketch -- Art Glossary Definition Scrapbook Sketches - Saving Time with Scrapbook Sketches Definition of Thumbnail - Art History Glossary Black-and-White by Sasto - Submit an Entry: Impressionist Sun Painting Proj... Jacci Howard Bear About.com Desktop Publishing Sign up for My Newsletter Headlines Forum Top Related Searches page layout program thumbnail sketches pencil sketches thumbnail sketch rough sketches rough drawings Explore Desktop Publishing Must Reads Myths and Outright Lies Best Computer to Use (Mac or PC) How to Create a Good Layout 6 Reasons to Upgrade Your Software Ask a Question About Desktop Publishing Most Popular How Do I Open .PUB files Without Microsoft... How To Install Fonts on a Mac Certificate Wording Color Symbolism How To Install TrueType or OpenType Fonts in... See More About: thumbnail sketches brainstorming document design page layout By Category Software / Fonts / Images Design Projects Graphic Design Tutorials Do Desktop Publishing Graphics Tutorials Typography Prepress & Printing Web Design Tutorials Education and Training Business of Design Desktop Publishing One Word, Phrase, or Concept at a Time Desktop Publishing About.com Computing Desktop Publishing Do Desktop Publishing Page Layout Techniques Comps How and Why to Do Rough Thumbnail Sketches of Layouts in Desktop Publishing Advertise on About.com Our Story News SiteMap All Topics Reprints Help Write for About Careers at About User Agreement Ethics Policy Patent Info. Privacy Policy Your Ad Choices ©2013 About.com. All rights reserved.
