# Graphic Designers : Occupational Outlook Handbook: : U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics

URL: https://web.archive.org/web/20171027215647/https://www.bls.gov/ooh/arts-and-design/graphic-designers.htm
Source: web.archive.org
Fetched: 20260603-044117
Cycle: 1
Quality: 0.81
Body: 25773 chars, ~3815 words

## Design signals
- top_colors: —
- fonts: —
- designers_mentioned: Together
- gradients: 0

## Body

Graphic Designers : Occupational Outlook Handbook: : U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics 1,114 captures 02 Apr 2012 - 17 May 2026 Sep OCT Nov 27 2016 2017 2018 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Organization: Archive Team Formed in 2009, the Archive Team (not to be confused with the archive.org Archive-It Team) is a rogue archivist collective dedicated to saving copies of rapidly dying or deleted websites for the sake of history and digital heritage. The group is 100% composed of volunteers and interested parties, and has expanded into a large amount of related projects for saving online and digital history. History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were "resolved" when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a small-but-critical site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of user-created data to save for future generations. The main site for Archive Team is at archiveteam.org and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs. This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive, multi-terabyte datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the Wayback Machine, providing a path back to lost websites and work. Our collection has grown to the point of having sub-collections for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find. The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures. Collection: ArchiveBot: The Archive Team Crowdsourced Crawler ArchiveBot is an IRC bot designed to automate the archival of smaller websites (e.g. up to a few hundred thousand URLs). You give it a URL to start at, and it grabs all content under that URL, records it in a WARC, and then uploads that WARC to ArchiveTeam servers for eventual injection into the Internet Archive (or other archive sites). To use ArchiveBot, drop by #archivebot on EFNet. To interact with ArchiveBot, you issue commands by typing it into the channel. Note you will need channel operator permissions in order to issue archiving jobs. The dashboard shows the sites being downloaded currently. There is a dashboard running for the archivebot process at http://www.archivebot.com. ArchiveBot's source code can be found at https://github.com/ArchiveTeam/ArchiveBot. TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20171027215647/https://www.bls.gov/ooh/arts-and-design/graphic-designers.htm OOH HOME | OCCUPATION FINDER | OOH FAQ | OOH GLOSSARY | A-Z INDEX | OOH SITE MAP | EN ESPAÑOL Occupational Outlook Handbook > Arts and Design > Graphic Designers PRINTER-FRIENDLY EN ESPAÑOL Summary What They Do Work Environment How to Become One Pay Job Outlook State & Area Data Similar Occupations More Info Summary Graphic designers combine art and technology to develop graphics for product illustrations, logos, and websites. Quick Facts: Graphic Designers 2016 Median Pay $47,640 per year $22.90 per hour Typical Entry-Level Education Bachelor's degree Work Experience in a Related Occupation None On-the-job Training None Number of Jobs, 2016 266,300 Job Outlook, 2016-26 5% (As fast as average) Employment Change, 2016-26 12,500 What Graphic Designers Do Graphic designers create visual concepts, using computer software or by hand, to communicate ideas that inspire, inform, and captivate consumers. They develop the overall layout and production design for various applications such as advertisements, brochures, magazines, and corporate reports. Work Environment Many of these workers are employed in specialized design services, publishing, or advertising, public relations, and related services industries. In 2016, about 1 in 5 graphic designers were self-employed. How to Become a Graphic Designer Graphic designers usually need a bachelor’s degree in graphic design or a related field. Candidates for graphic design positions should demonstrate their creativity and originality through a professional portfolio that features their best designs. Pay The median annual wage for graphic designers was $47,640 in May 2016. Job Outlook Employment of graphic designers is projected to grow 5 percent from 2016 to 2026, about as fast as the average for all occupations. Graphic designers are expected to face strong competition for available positions. State & Area Data Explore resources for employment and wages by state and area for graphic designers. Similar Occupations Compare the job duties, education, job growth, and pay of graphic designers with similar occupations. More Information, Including Links to O*NET Learn more about graphic designers by visiting additional resources, including O*NET, a source on key characteristics of workers and occupations. What Graphic Designers Do About this section Graphic designers create designs either by hand or using computer software packages. Graphic designers create visual concepts, using computer software or by hand, to communicate ideas that inspire, inform, and captivate consumers. They develop the overall layout and production design for various applications such as advertisements, brochures, magazines, and corporate reports. Duties Graphic designers typically do the following: Meet with clients or the art director to determine the scope of a project Use digital illustration, photo editing software, and layout software to create designs Create visual elements such as logos, original images, and illustrations that help deliver a desired message Design layouts and select colors, images, and typefaces to use Present design concepts to clients or art directors Incorporate changes recommended by clients or art directors into final designs Review designs for errors before printing or publishing them Graphic designers combine art and technology to communicate ideas through images and the layout of websites and printed pages. They may use a variety of design elements to achieve artistic or decorative effects. Graphic designers work with both text and images. They often select the type, font, size, color, and line length of headlines, headings, and text. Graphic designers also decide how images and text will go together on a print or webpage, including how much space each will have. When using text in layouts, graphic designers collaborate closely with writers, who choose the words and decide whether the words will be put into paragraphs, lists, or tables. Through the use of images, text, and color, graphic designers can transform statistical data into visual graphics and diagrams, which can make complex ideas more accessible. Graphic design is important to marketing and selling products, and is a critical component of brochures and logos. Therefore, graphic designers, also referred to as graphic artists or communication designers, often work closely with people in advertising and promotions, public relations, and marketing. Frequently, designers specialize in a particular category or type of client. For example, some create the graphics used on retail products packaging, and others may work on the visual designs used on book jackets. Graphic designers need to keep up to date with the latest software and computer technologies in 
