# The Dimensions of Colour, modern colour theory

URL: http://www.huevaluechroma.com/112.php
Source: www.huevaluechroma.com
Fetched: 20260603-044324
Cycle: 1
Quality: 0.81
Body: 33020 chars, ~5145 words

## Design signals
- top_colors: —
- fonts: Circular
- designers_mentioned: Linear, Together
- gradients: 0

## Body

The Dimensions of Colour, modern colour theory I'm proud to announce that my colour short course is now offered online through Australia's National Art School in Sydney! There's a choice of two sessions to suit every time zone. LINK Home The Dimensions of Colour Basics of Light and Shade Basics of Colour Vision Additive Mixing Subtractive Mixing Mixing of Paints Hue Lightness and Chroma Brightness and Saturation Principles of Colour Afterthoughts Purves and Lotto Modern Colour Theory Traditional Colour Theory What is Color? Answers Colour Constancy Illusions Colour Quiz What is a Colour? Colour Education Color Impact 2020 Colour Attributes Shillito portfolio Dimensions Today Index of Works Psychophysical Shillito Paper Elements of Colour Objects and Light Glossary References Contact Links NEXT COLOUR WORKSHOPS traditional and modern colour theory 11.2 TRADITIONAL AND MODERN COLOUR THEORY PART 1: MODERN COLOUR THEORY These two pages contain the text of a webinar I presented for the NSW Division of the Colour Society of Australia in July 2015. The direct link to the video recording of the webinar on YouTube (above) is https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4enFjTGVTnc. Figure 11.2.1. Extracts representative of traditional colour theory, from Johannes Itten's The Art Of Color (1961, pp. 34, 78 and 22). [EDIT July, 2023: The term "traditional colour theory" is employed in this presentation for colour training based on the concept that red, yellow and blue are the three "primary colours" that form the ultimate components of other colours, characterized as "secondary" and "tertiary", as seen expressed in what is widely known as the "traditional color wheel". This concept, sometimes known as the "RYB color model", was overturned as a scientific theory by Helmholtz and others in the mid-19th century, but has persisted to the present in art education texts including Johannes Itten's highly influential The Art of Color (1961). The contrasting term "modern colour theory" is employed here for colour training that is informed by this mid-19th century revolution in our scientific understanding of colour, with the works of Rood, Munsell, Ostwald and others given as examples. Over the last half century the term "traditional colour theory" has been used in different senses depending on which theories of colour were being contrasted as non-traditional, making it important to pay attention to the sense in which the term is used in order to avoid making arguments at cross purposes and misdirected criticisms. Thus I note for example that Dr Zena O'Connor has more recently employed the term "traditional colour theory" in a very different sense to that employed here (e.g. O'Connor, 2023), to include, in addition to works of red-yellow-blue colour theory, the works of Rood, Munsell, Ostwald and others that in this presentation are taken to typify "modern colour theory". It should be clear therefore that the criticisms expressed in this presentation are directed only at part of the disparate array of practical colour instruction deemed by O'Connor to comprise "traditional colour theory", and only insofar as that instruction is based on the RYB model]. Colour training in the arts today is curiously divided between traditional and modern colour theory. Traditional colour theory characteristically begins with the concept of three primary colours identified as red, yellow and blue. These historical primaries rose to prominence over the course of the 17th century, and then as now were based on the observation that mixtures of a wide range of colours can be obtained from colourants (paints and dyes) of just a reddish, a yellowish and a bluish colour, along with the psychological perception that red, yellow and blue seem pure or "simple" compared to most other colours. A second characteristic of traditional colour theory in its typical form is that it speaks as if colours themselves intermix when we mix colourants, so that the colour of a paint mixture is made of the colours of its component paints. From this viewpoint each of the three "secondary" colours made by mixing colourants of two primary colours is made of those two colours, for example the colour orange is physically made of the colours red and yellow and the colour green is made of the colours yellow and blue. Black, grey and greyish colours are commonly held to contain all three primaries, since they can be made by mixing a secondary with the remaining primary, called its opposite or complementary colour (Fig. 11.2.1). Greyish colours are sometimes called "tertiary" to reflect this belief that they are made of three components, although this term is also used in traditional colour theory in a different sense, for the six third-order colours that lie between adjacent primaries and secondaries, and so supposedly "contain" two primaries in unequal amounts. By extrapolating from these assumptions, red, yellow and blue, along with white and sometimes black, are deemed to be the fundamental components of all colours, and paints of these three colours should "in theory" yield all possible colours by intermixture. The fact that they do not can be blamed on a lack of "pure" primaries among available paints, and clearly a bluish-red paint, which by this view contains the primary colour red plus a visible "impurity" of blue, must be further from being a good colourant-mixing primary than one that is perceptually pure red. Figure 11.2.2. A. Colour wheel from George Field's Chromatography (2nd edn, 1841). Numbers around the circumference indicate the proportions in which secondary and tertiary colours must be present in order for the three primaries to be balanced. B. Post-Newtonian model of traditional colour theory, in which white light is thought to consist of red, yellow and blue rays. A mixture of yellow and blue paints reflects only the yellow and blue rays, which are detected by yellow and blue receptors in the eye, leading to a mixed sensation of green. C. Three-dimensional colour space proposed in a 1758 lecture by Swedish astronomer Tobias Mayer, in which colours are arranged in a double pyramid according to proportions of red, yellow, blue, black and white components. Traditional colour theory readily adopted Newton's hue circle of 1704 in the form of the artists' "colour wheel" with its symmetrically placed historical primaries (e.g. Fig. 11.2.2A). More problematic was Newton's conclusion that lights of all colours are composed of rays of the innumerable but seven-named colours of the spectrum, and that green and orange lights could be physically simple as well as compound. This problem however could be countered by supposing that the spectrum is not continuous, as Newton had thought, but is actually made of separate red, yellow and blue rays that produce the remaining colours by intermixture. The suggestion that our eyes have three kinds of receptors responsible for colour vision was first made based on this hypothesis of red, yellow and blue rays. In this enviably simple view of colour, the historical colourant-mixing primaries coincide with the primaries for mixing coloured lights, with the sensitivities of the visual receptors, and with the psychological primaries of perception. For example in Fig. 11.2.2B, a mixture of yellow and blue paints reflects only the yellow and blue rays, which are detected by yellow and blue receptors in the eye, leading to a mixed sensation of green. The three-ray hypothesis was quite widely accepted in science, and the first three-dimensional colour order systems for classifying object colours were made on the assumption that all such colours are mixtures of red, yellow, blue and white (+ black) components in various proportions (Fig. 11.2.2 C). This hypothesis was not overturned until 1852, when the version of it promoted by the Scottish physicist Sir David Brewster was convincingly demolished by the brilliant German physicist and physiologist, Hermann von Helmholtz. In subsequent years Helm
