# Imaginary people representing real numbers: Generating personas from online social media data - Penn State

URL: https://pennstate.pure.elsevier.com/en/publications/imaginary-people-representing-real-numbers-generating-personas-fr
Source: pennstate.pure.elsevier.com
Fetched: 20260603-114648
Cycle: 6
Quality: 0.85
Language: en
On-topic: yes
Body: 9052 chars, ~1305 words

## Design signals
- top_colors: —
- fonts: ACM Transactions, Computing Machinery, Our Methodology, Social Media, User Content
- designers_mentioned: Together
- gradients: 0

## Body

Imaginary people representing real numbers: Generating personas from online social media data - Penn State Skip to main navigation Skip to search Skip to main content Imaginary people representing real numbers: Generating personas from online social media data J. An , H. Kwak , S. Jung , J. Salminen , M. Admad , B. Jansen College of Information Sciences and Technology Institute for Computational and Data Sciences (ICDS) Research output: Contribution to journal › Article › peer-review 108 Link opens in a new tab Scopus citations Abstract We develop a methodology to automate creating imaginary people, referred to as personas, by processing complex behavioral and demographic data of social media audiences. From a popular social media account containing more than 30 million interactions by viewers from 198 countries engaging with more than 4,200 online videos produced by a global media corporation, we demonstrate that our methodology has several novel accomplishments, including: (a) identifying distinct user behavioral segments based on the user content consumption patterns; (b) identifying impactful demographics groupings; and (c) creating rich persona descriptions by automatically adding pertinent attributes, such as names, photos, and personal characteristics. We validate our approach by implementing the methodology into an actual working system; we then evaluate it via quantitative methods by examining the accuracy of predicting content preference of personas, the stability of the personas over time, and the generalizability of the method via applying to two other datasets. Research findings show the approach can develop rich personas representing the behavior and demographics of real audiences using privacy-preserving aggregated online social media data from major online platforms. Results have implications for media companies and other organizations distributing content via online platforms. Original languageEnglish (US)Article number27JournalACM Transactions on the WebVolume12Issue number4DOIs https://doi.org/10.1145/3265986 StatePublished - Nov 2018 All Science Journal Classification (ASJC) codes Computer Networks and Communications Access to Document 10.1145/3265986 Other files and links Link to publication in Scopus Link to the citations in Scopus Fingerprint Dive into the research topics of 'Imaginary people representing real numbers: Generating personas from online social media data'. Together they form a unique fingerprint. View full fingerprint Cite this APA Author BIBTEX Harvard Standard RIS Vancouver An, J., Kwak, H., Jung, S., Salminen, J., Admad, M., & Jansen, B. (2018). Imaginary people representing real numbers: Generating personas from online social media data. ACM Transactions on the Web, 12(4), Article 27. https://doi.org/10.1145/3265986 An, J. ; Kwak, H. ; Jung, S. et al. / Imaginary people representing real numbers : Generating personas from online social media data. In: ACM Transactions on the Web. 2018 ; Vol. 12, No. 4. @article{1b719c06dbbc405186aa703f084ee933, title = "Imaginary people representing real numbers: Generating personas from online social media data", abstract = "We develop a methodology to automate creating imaginary people, referred to as personas, by processing complex behavioral and demographic data of social media audiences. From a popular social media account containing more than 30 million interactions by viewers from 198 countries engaging with more than 4,200 online videos produced by a global media corporation, we demonstrate that our methodology has several novel accomplishments, including: (a) identifying distinct user behavioral segments based on the user content consumption patterns; (b) identifying impactful demographics groupings; and (c) creating rich persona descriptions by automatically adding pertinent attributes, such as names, photos, and personal characteristics. We validate our approach by implementing the methodology into an actual working system; we then evaluate it via quantitative methods by examining the accuracy of predicting content preference of personas, the stability of the personas over time, and the generalizability of the method via applying to two other datasets. Research findings show the approach can develop rich personas representing the behavior and demographics of real audiences using privacy-preserving aggregated online social media data from major online platforms. Results have implications for media companies and other organizations distributing content via online platforms.", author = "J. An and H. Kwak and S. Jung and J. Salminen and M. Admad and B. Jansen", note = "Publisher Copyright: {\textcopyright} 2018 Association for Computing Machinery.", year = "2018", month = nov, doi = "10.1145/3265986", language = "English (US)", volume = "12", journal = "ACM Transactions on the Web", issn = "1559-1131", publisher = "Association for Computing Machinery", number = "4", } An, J, Kwak, H, Jung, S, Salminen, J, Admad, M & Jansen, B 2018, 'Imaginary people representing real numbers: Generating personas from online social media data', ACM Transactions on the Web, vol. 12, no. 4, 27. https://doi.org/10.1145/3265986 Imaginary people representing real numbers: Generating personas from online social media data. / An, J.; Kwak, H.; Jung, S. et al. In: ACM Transactions on the Web, Vol. 12, No. 4, 27, 11.2018. Research output: Contribution to journal › Article › peer-review TY - JOUR T1 - Imaginary people representing real numbers T2 - Generating personas from online social media data AU - An, J. AU - Kwak, H. AU - Jung, S. AU - Salminen, J. AU - Admad, M. AU - Jansen, B. N1 - Publisher Copyright: © 2018 Association for Computing Machinery. PY - 2018/11 Y1 - 2018/11 N2 - We develop a methodology to automate creating imaginary people, referred to as personas, by processing complex behavioral and demographic data of social media audiences. From a popular social media account containing more than 30 million interactions by viewers from 198 countries engaging with more than 4,200 online videos produced by a global media corporation, we demonstrate that our methodology has several novel accomplishments, including: (a) identifying distinct user behavioral segments based on the user content consumption patterns; (b) identifying impactful demographics groupings; and (c) creating rich persona descriptions by automatically adding pertinent attributes, such as names, photos, and personal characteristics. We validate our approach by implementing the methodology into an actual working system; we then evaluate it via quantitative methods by examining the accuracy of predicting content preference of personas, the stability of the personas over time, and the generalizability of the method via applying to two other datasets. Research findings show the approach can develop rich personas representing the behavior and demographics of real audiences using privacy-preserving aggregated online social media data from major online platforms. Results have implications for media companies and other organizations distributing content via online platforms. AB - We develop a methodology to automate creating imaginary people, referred to as personas, by processing complex behavioral and demographic data of social media audiences. From a popular social media account containing more than 30 million interactions by viewers from 198 countries engaging with more than 4,200 online videos produced by a global media corporation, we demonstrate that our methodology has several novel accomplishments, including: (a) identifying distinct user behavioral segments based on the user content consumption patterns; (b) identifying impactful demographics groupings; and (c) creating rich persona descriptions by automatically adding pertinent attributes, such as names, photos, and personal characteristics. We validate our approach by implementing the methodology into an actual working system; we then evaluate it via quantitative meth
