# Elements of Art: Space Tutorial | Sophia Learning

URL: https://www.sophia.org/tutorials/elements-of-art-space
Source: www.sophia.org
Fetched: 20260603-191527
Cycle: 7
Quality: 0.80
Language: en
On-topic: yes
Body: 17242 chars, ~2665 words

## Design signals
- top_colors: #215(1)
- fonts: ANY KIND, Account Already, And How, And More, Art Gallery, Art Museum, Cai Guo, Contemporary Art, Dia Art Foundation, Henry Moore, Henry Moore Foundation, Hudson River, Image Courtesy, Learn More, Matter, Maya Lin, Minneapolis Institute, Modern Art, National Museum, New Mexico, Palace Museum, Privacy Policy, Royal Academy, Sophia Learning, THE USE, The Artist, The Bank, The Color, The Design, The Effect, The End, The Essence, The Human, The Observer, The Person Who, The Science, The Sea, The Space, The Spaces, The Use, The Work, Video Games, You Can, You See
- designers_mentioned: Linear
- gradients: 0

## Body

Elements of Art: Space Tutorial | Sophia Learning Use Sophia to knock out your gen-ed requirements quickly and affordably. Learn more Sign In Help Become a Member Try for Free Create an Account Or Close Popup First, please create an account Already have a Sophia account? Sign in &#215; Elements of Art: Space Author: Lucy Lamp What is space? Space. A place. We are always in some kind of space, some kind of place, yet we often don’t think about it. We might be reminded when we see a majestic landscape, or when we come home again after a long day, or when we want to fix, decorate, or change our homes. Think for a moment about characteristics of a specific space, or place. Every place is different. It might be inviting, welcoming, cheery, bright, colorful. It might be bleak, overwhelming, dark, foreboding, mysterious. It might be expansive and open, or it might be cramped and crowded. Each of these informs the artwork in a different way. Caspar David Friedrich The Sea of Ice 1823–24 Oil on canvas126.9 × 96.7 cm (50 × 38.1 in) Kunsthalle Hamburg. Image Source: The Yorck Project: 10.000 Meisterwerke der Malerei. DVD-ROM, 2002. ISBN 3936122202. Distributed by DIRECTMEDIA Publishing GmbH. Space in two and three dimensions Space in artwork Space, or place is always a part of artwork, even if it is simply where the work is displayed. This is dealing with actual space. The setting a sculpture is in becomes part of how it is viewed and its effect on us. This is a crucial element that must be considered during the process of conceiving and creating sculpture. Think for a moment of how you might feel about a sculpture if it is displayed outside, in a gallery, or in someone’s home. In each case the surroundings become part of the sculpture itself. Henry Moore Double Oval (1968-70) Length:550cm Bronze Edition of 2 + 1 Cast: Hermann Noack, Berlin The Henry Moore Foundation: acquired 1987 Photo taken at the Henry Moore Foundation Reguiieee Even two-dimensional artwork is affected by its surroundings. Imagine a painting by Rembrandt, framed in an ornate, heavy gold frame. Imagine it where you would most likely expect to find it: a large art museum in a major city, among countless works of art, considered to be priceless masterpieces and which are from numerous historical periods. Now imagine it in a modern art gallery, with stark white walls and an eclectic array of contemporary art. Compare that to seeing it in someone’s home, among their furnishings and taste in decorating. Space in three dimensions Three-dimensional art is almost always experienced in relation to the scale of our own bodies. For example, if a sculpture is seven feet tall, it will appear intimidating to us. But if it is miniature in size, no matter what the subject matter, we dominate over it. Maya Lin 2x4 Landscape from the exhibition Three Ways of Looking at the Earth at PaceWildenstein Gallery September 10 through October 24, 2009 Photo: Lucy Lamp Space in installation and environmental art For some artists, the space itself and how it is transformed is the artwork. Installation artists, landscape artists, and environmental artists all fit within that category. Cai Guo-Qiang: Inopportune: Stage Two Cai Guo-Qiang Inopportune: Stage Two 2004 Tigers: paper mache, plaster, fiberglass, resin, painted hide; arrows: brass, bamboo, feathers; stage prop: styrofoam, wood, canvas, acrylic paint; dmensions variable Installation view: MASS MoCA, North Adams, MA Collection of the Artist Courtesy Cai Guo-Qiang "Entering the tiger room, you see the violent act- tigers with arrows pierced into their bodies and there’s a very visceral response. Even though it’s completely fake, the tigers are so realistically made that the audience feels pain when they see the them. The pain is not in the tigers, which obviously can’t feel. The pain is really in the person who’s viewing this. So it’s through the artwork, because it represents pain, that one feels this pain and has this very visceral relationship or reaction to it." Cai Guo-Qiang, as quoted on PBS Art 21 website http://www.pbs.org/art21/artists/cai/index.html?gclid=CL6995OVy6kCFR02gwodrDvaOg# Robert Smithson: Spiral Jetty Robert Smithson, Spiral Jetty, 1970. Photo: George Steinmetz. "Robert Smithson's monumental earthwork Spiral Jetty (1970) is located on the Great Salt Lake in Utah. Using black basalt rocks and earth from the site, the artist created a coil 1,500 feet long and 15 feet wide that stretches out counter-clockwise into the translucentred water. Spiral Jetty was acquired by Dia Art Foundation as a gift from the Estate of the artist in 1999" quoted from Dia Art Foundation website http://www.diaart.org/sites/main/spiraljetty Installation art and environmental art is usually temporary. It can't be bought and sold like other art forms can. Most often its posterity lies in its documentation. For that reason, preserving the moment is of utmost importance. Most installation and environmental art is only known through its documentation, once its moment is over. Walter de Maria: Lightning Field Walter De Maria, The Lightning Field, 1977. Long-term installation in Western New Mexico. "Walter De Maria is best known for his 1977 Lightning Field. A rectangular grid in New Mexico measuring one mile by one kilometer and containing 400 stainless-steel lightning rods, it serves as an arena for observing meteorological activity. " Posted by Delmarys Hernandez on December 7, 2010 at 2:30pm http://admsp.org/profiles/blogs/walter-de-marias-famous-works Space in two dimensions In two-dimensional work, space is implied. Two-dimensional artists are free to create any kind of space they envision. In addition, the viewer does not always relate the scale of the work to their own body. Within the picture plane anything is possible. It becomes like a window; and in our minds, we can be any size at all and imagine ourselves within the space the artist has created. Photo Lucy Lamp Illusion of space in two dimensions Implied Space There are many ways to create an illusion of space (implied space) in two-dimensional art. This includes overlapping objects, size comparison and position of objects, and color (cool colors tend to recede, while warm colors tend to move toward the viewer. Perspective Systems There are also perspective systems that can be used: linear, isometric, and atmospheric. Linear Perspective Linear perspective was developed during the Renaissance and it is what we, in the Western world, are accustomed to seeing in art. Linear perspective is meant to create an illusion of space according to how we see, with a limited and fixed point of view. Lines appear to come to a point on the horizon and then vanish into space. In the distance a highway on a very flat landscape appears to come to a point and then disappear. Photo Lucy Lamp Linear perspective uses a horizon line and vanishing points on the horizon line. Vanishing points are the points on the horizon where lines appear to converge. Linear perspective assumes a fixed and limited point of view of the observer. Any shift in position of the observer would result in an entirely new arrangement of elements,which would require a new composition altogether. One-point linear perspective In one-point perspective there is one vanishing point (like the photo above). All lines converge at the same point on the horizon. Two-point linear perspective In two-point perspective, there are two vanishing points on the horizon line. Lines converge at one or the other of the vanishing points Renaisance Use of Linear Perspective: Raphael Raphael’s ‘School of Athens’ (1510), depicting a host of ancient philosophers in a perspective setting. There is no full agreement on the identities of the participants, but the most plausible are given here. Plato (left center) is a portrait of Leonardo, passing his knowledge to his pupil Aristotle, whose outstretched hand forms the center of the composition. To Plato’s right is Socrates, holding forth to 
