# The Dimensions of Colour, modern colour theory

URL: http://www.huevaluechroma.com/
Source: www.huevaluechroma.com
Fetched: 20260603-044401
Cycle: 1
Quality: 0.86
Body: 21373 chars, ~3361 words

## Design signals
- top_colors: —
- fonts: Inter
- designers_mentioned: —
- gradients: 0

## Body

The Dimensions of Colour, modern colour theory I'm proud to announce that my colour short course is now offered online through Australia's National Art School in Sydney! There's a choice of two sessions to suit every time zone. LINK Home The Dimensions of Colour Basics of Light and Shade Basics of Colour Vision Additive Mixing Subtractive Mixing Mixing of Paints Hue Lightness and Chroma Brightness and Saturation Principles of Colour Afterthoughts Glossary References Contact Links NEXT COLOUR WORKSHOPS AND ONLINE CLASSES Modern Colour Theory for Traditional and Digital Painting Media MODERN COLOUR THEORY FOR TRADITIONAL AND DIGITAL PAINTING MEDIA by Dr David. J.C. Briggs, National Art School and University of Technology, Sydney. Past President, Vice President and NSW Divisional Chair, Colour Society of Australia. NEW - JUNE 2024: Colours of Objects and Colours of Illumination. The presentation was prepared for the Colour Literacy Forum #8, The Interaction of Colour and Light, Part 2 of the Colour in Context Series, with Professor Sylvia Pont (Netherlands), Associate Professor Kine Angelo (Norway) and myself. My aim in this talk was to provide a compact account of the attributes of perceived colour, what each attribute is a perception of, and how each attribute relates to the layers of our visual perception, which I haven't seen done before. Taken as a whole, it's an analytical response to the question "what is colour?" that was the subject of the preceding forum, based on current science as I've interpreted it from the CIE International Lighting Vocabulary in recent years. An illustrated pdf of this presentation can be found on my academia.edu page. Site contents About the author Acknowledgements This website presents an account of the dimensions of colour and light perception, written for painters using either traditional or digital media at intervals between 2007 and 2017. The conceptual framework presented here was developed as a component of Colour, Light and Vision, a course in colour theory and practice for artists that I presented between 1998 and 2019 at the Julian Ashton Art School, Sydney, of Theories of Colour, a lecture course on the history of colour theory and practice that I presented at the National Art School, Sydney, in 2009-2011, and of practical painting classes at the both schools. My resources on colour developed since 2017 can be found in various presentations indexed on this page, and in my public eight-week online colour course Understanding and Applying Colour, now available through the National Art School, Sydney. See also my new site Colour Online, a curated collection of about 500 colour-related links on topics comprising Basic Colour Attributes, The Physical Basis of Colour, Colour Vision, Light Mixing Processes, Colorants and Colorant Mixing, Colour Order Systems, Digital Colour Technology, Colour in Art and Design, History of Colour Studies, Colour Education and Further Information. Comments on this website are welcome on the Dimensions of Colour Facebook page. Unless otherwise indicated, all material on this website is copyright Dr David Briggs, 2007-2022, and is licensed for personal and commercial use under the terms of a Creative Commons Attribution-No Derivative Works 2.5 Australia license. This means that if you wish to utilize and redistribute items from this website you may do so, but for each item you must give appropriate credit on the same page, including my name and a link to the source page on this website, as well as abide by the other conditions of this license, just as you would for content that you paid to use. Site Contents All pages published in 2007 unless otherwise stated. Home 1 The Dimensions Introduced 1.1 Colours in Space 1.2 The Dimensions of What, Exactly? (added 15/1/17, revised 22/10/17) 1.3 The Dimensions of Colour: Lightness (added 16/1/17; edited 6/11/2018) 1.4 The Dimensions of Colour: Hue (added 21/1/17) 1.5 The Dimensions of Colour: Chroma (added 23/1/17) 1.6 The Dimensions of Colour: Brightness and Colourfulness (added 30/1/17) 1.7 The Dimensions of Colour: Saturation (added 31/1/17) 1.8 The Dimensions of Colour: Blackness and Brilliance (added 15/2/17) 2 Basics of Light and Shade 2.1 Specular and Diffuse Reflection 2.2 The Zone of Light 2.3 The Zone of Shadow 3 Basics of Colour Vision 3.1 Introduction 3.2 Trichomacy and Opponency (revised 08/10/11) 3.2 Adaptation and Successive Contrast 3.4 Colour Constancy 3.5 Simultaneous Contrast and Assimilation 3.6 What is Colour? (added 09/3/14) 3.7 Answers to "What is Colour"? (added 09/3/14) 4 Additive Mixing 4.1 Additive Primaries (revised 5/8/12) 4.2 Additive Mixtures (revised 5/8/12) 4.3 Additive Complementaries (revised 5/8/12) 4.4 Additive-Averaging and Pointillist Mixing (revised 2/4/20) 4.5 Object Colours (revised 5/8/12) 5 Subtractive Mixing 5.1 Subtractive Mixing (revised 13/8/12) 5.2 Ideal Subtractive Primaries (revised 12/8/12) 5.3 Subtractive Complementaries (revised 26/6/12) 6 Mixing of Paints 6.1 Mixing Paints (revised 2/11/12) 6.2 Primary Colours (revised 2/11/12) 6.3 Paint-mixing Principles (revised 2/11/12) 7 Hue 7.1 Hue from Aristotle to Newton (revised 15/4/13) 7.2 The RYB Hue Circle or Artist's Colour Wheel (revised 15/4/13) 7.3 Hue Systems Based on Opponent Colours (revised 28/7/13) 7.4 Hue Systems Based on Additive Complementaries 7.5 Hue Systems Based on Pigment-Mixing Complementaries 7.6 Orthogonal Systems 7.7 Warm and Cool Hues (revised 25/05/17) 8 Lightness and Chroma 8.1 Lightness 8.2 Chroma 8.3 Hue-Chroma-Lightness Colour Spaces 9 Brightness and Saturation 9.1 Brightness, Saturation and Colorfulness 9.2 RGB, CMY and CMYK Colour Space 9.3 HSB (=HSV) Colour Space 9.4 HLS (=HSL) and HSI Colour Space 10 Principles of Colour 10.1 Shading Series (revised 26/7/14) 10.2 Consistency of Relative Brightness 10.3 The Scale of Brilliance 10.4 Effect of Coloured Illumination 10.5 Effect of Multiple Light Sources 10.6 Effect of Distance From Light 10.7 Effect of Inclination to Light 10.8 Effects of Atmosphere 10.9 Applying the Principles in Paint 11 Afterthoughts 11.1 What do Purves and Lotto's Illusions Actually Show? (added 25/10/17) 11.2 Traditional and Modern Colour Theory Part 1 11.3 Traditional and Modern Colour Theory Part 2 11.4 "What is Color?" 11.5 Answers to What is Color?" Page 11.6 Colour Constancy Illusions and Painting (added 28/10/2018) 11.7 The Art, Science and History of Colour Quiz (added February 2019) 11.8 What is a Colour? Perception or Property? (added 14/02/2020) 11.9 Where is Colour Education Now? (added 12/05/2020) 11.10 Report on the Color Impact 2020 Virtual Symposium (added 17/07/2020) 11.11 More than Three Dimensions -14th AIC Congress, Milan 2021 (added 3/09/2021) 11.12 A Shillito Student Portfolio from the Mid-1940’s (with Eva Fay, added 15/02/2022) 11.13 The Dimensions of Colour Today (added 31/03/2022) 11.14 List of Works (added 11/04/2022) 11.15 Psychophysical Colour (added June 16, 2022) 11.16 A Shillito Student Portfolio from the Mid-1940’s (added June 16, 2022) 11.17 The Elements of Colour (added February 7, 2024) 11.18 Colours of Objects and Colours of Light (added February 7, 2024) 12 Glossary References Contact Links Classes Colours of Objects and Colours of Light. This video is a recording of my keynote presentation for the Colour Society of Australia national conference Colour Sense and Sensibility held in Perth on October 12-15, 2023. It looks at how our visual system presents us with superimposed perceptions of colours of objects and colour of light, and how grasping this concept of perceptual layering can resolve a lot of the confusion that plagues discussions about colour. An illustrated pdf of this presentation can be found on my academia.edu page. I recommend this presentation and The Elements of Colour (below) as an introduction to my recent work on the most fundamental yet widely misunderstood concepts relating to colour. The Elements of Colour is an online presentation I gave 
