# How Web 2.0 Works - HowStuffWorks

URL: https://web.archive.org/web/20150217030750/http://computer.howstuffworks.com/web-20.htm
Source: web.archive.org
Fetched: 20260603-230237
Cycle: 13
Quality: 0.85
Language: en
On-topic: yes
Body: 6130 chars, ~1002 words

## Design signals
- top_colors: —
- fonts: About The, About This, And How, Archive The, Business Models, But There, Check Out, Customer Service, Dale Dougherty, From Web, Google Glass, Health Home, How Does, How Web, Internet Archive, Internet Archive The, Jan FEB Mar, MOST POPULAR, Most Popular, Most Popular Most, NEW COLLECTION, Privacy Policy, Real World, Reilly Media, Science Fiction, Should Know, Site Map, THE USE, TIMESTAMPS The Wayback, The Commercial, The Internet, The New, The Real, The Real World, The State, The Two, The Use, The Wayback Machine, The Web, This Article, Want You, Wayback Machine, Web Sites, What Made, Why You Should, You Should Know
- designers_mentioned: —
- gradients: 0

## Body

How Web 2.0 Works - HowStuffWorks 257 captures 15 Jan 2008 - 19 May 2026 Jan FEB Mar 17 2014 2015 2016 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Organization: Internet Archive The Internet Archive discovers and captures web pages through many different web crawls. At any given time several distinct crawls are running, some for months, and some every day or longer. View the web archive through the Wayback Machine. Collection: Survey Crawl Number 2 - Started Dec 17th, 2014 - Ended Jul 31st, 2015 The seed for this crawl was a list of every host in the Wayback Machine This crawl was run at a level 1 (URLs including their embeds, plus the URLs of all outbound links including their embeds) The WARC files associated with this crawl are not currently available to the general public. TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20150217030750/http://computer.howstuffworks.com/web-20.htm Adventure Animals Auto Culture Entertainment Health Home & Garden Lifestyle Money Science Tech Video Shows Quizzes Computer Electronics Home / Tech / Computer / Internet / Web Design & Development How Web 2.0 Works by Jonathan Strickland Page 1 Introduction to How Web 2.0 Works 2 Using the Web as a Platform 3 Democratization of the Web 4 Distributing Information The O'Reilly Media Web site is a prime example of Web 2.0 at work. Screenshot by HowStuffWorks 2007 Ask a dozen Internet experts what the term Web 2.0 means, and you'll get a dozen different answers. Some say that Web 2.0 is a set of philosophies and practices that provide Web users with a deep and rich experience. Others say it's a new collection of applications and technologies that make it easier for people to find information and connect with one another online. A few journalists maintain that the term doesn't mean anything at all -- it's just a marketing ploy used to hype social networking sites. Before we get into the debate about what Web 2.0 actually means, let's look at where the phrase originated. In 2004, publishing firm O'Reilly Media and tradeshow production company MediaLive International had a brainstorming session. The two companies planned a conference that addressed the state of the Web, its future and the emerging techniques that would help ensure its success on the Internet. Tim O'Reilly, founder and CEO of O'Reilly Media, wanted to make the point that despite the dot-com crash of 2000, the Web was sure to become an enormous revenue generator. During this brainstorming session, O'Reilly Media publisher Dale Dougherty coined the phrase Web 2.0 to describe the new Web environment that emerged after the crash. While dozens of Internet companies had declared bankruptcy, a few hardy sites managed to survive. New Web sites were appearing every day, and many of them used drastically different business models than the commercial sites that existed before the crash. Still, no one had a clear definition of what Web 2.0 actually meant. If there really was a Web 2.0, did that mean there was also a Web 1.0? The use of "2.0" implied an improvement, or a new generation of Web sites, but there was no consensus on what made Web 2.0 different from Web 1.0. In September 2005, Tim O'Reilly posted a blog entry that defined Web 2.0. The explanation spanned five pages of text and graphics illustrating O'Reilly's take on what the term meant. O'Reilly's philosophy of Web 2.0 included these ideas: Using the Web as an applications platform Democratizing the Web Employing new methods to distribute information In this article, we'll explore each of these points. We'll also look at the debate about whether or not Web 2.0 actually has a practical meaning. In the next section, we'll look at what it means to use the Web as a platform. Print Cite This! Close Please copy/paste the following text to properly cite this HowStuffWorks article: Strickland, Jonathan. "How Web 2.0 Works" 28 December 2007. HowStuffWorks.com. <http://computer.howstuffworks.com/web-20.htm> 16 February 2015. Citation & Date Feedback Page 1 Introduction to How Web 2.0 Works 2 Using the Web as a Platform 3 Democratization of the Web 4 Distributing Information 5 The Web 2.0 Debate 6 Lots More Information More To Explore Popular Tech Topics Mac, ENIAC or UNIVAC: The Computer History Quiz Top 5 Myths About the Internet How to Connect Your Computer to Your TV How Capacitors Work How Cloud Computing Works Take a look at Computer Videos You Might Also Like How to Use Skype Video calling still seems like the stuff of science fiction, but, thanks to technologies like Skype, it's becoming more practical in the real world. So, what's this Skype thing, and how do you use it? 10 Reasons Why You Should Care About Net Neutrality To paraphrase John Oliver, "net" and "neutrality" are two spectacularly boring words. But here's the annoying truth: You should care about net neutrality. Learn why. Popular Articles How WiGig Works How Online Reminder Services Work How Pop-up Blockers Work Most Popular Most Watched 10 Ways Watches Have Evolved How does my iPhone know when someone is typing? How could Google Glass detect people's emotions? Are DVDs becoming obsolete? Electronics Puzzles: Vintage Clocks Computer Virus Videos Home Network Videos Ultimate Computer Hardware Videos Digital Cameras It's All Geek to Me Don't Miss Stuff You Should Know: Demystifying Your World Stuff Mom Never Told You: All Things Women and Gender Stuff You Missed in History Class: Fact or Fiction? CHECK OUT OUR PODCASTS HOWSTUFFWORKS NEWSLETTER THE LATEST AND GREATEST HOWSTUFFWORKS Adventure Animals Auto Culture Entertainment Health Home & Garden Lifestyle Money Science Tech MORE STUFF Store Blogs RSS Maps Podcasts Quizzes Newsletters Video Site Map HSW China STUFF WEBSITES BrainStuff CarStuff Fw:Thinking Stuff Mom Never Told You Stuff of Genius Stuff They Don't Want You to Know Stuff to Blow Your Mind Stuff You Missed in History Class Stuff You Should Know CUSTOMER SERVICE Advertising Contact Us Help CORPORATE About Us Careers @ HSW Privacy Policy Visitor Agreement TAKE US WITH YOU FOLLOW US Copyright © 1998-2015 HowStuffWorks, a division of InfoSpace LLC
