# Off Book | The Universal Arts of Graphic Design | PBS

URL: https://www.pbs.org/video/-book-universal-arts-graphic-design/
Source: www.pbs.org
Fetched: 20260603-044134
Cycle: 1
Quality: 0.81
Body: 10153 chars, ~1755 words

## Design signals
- top_colors: —
- fonts: —
- designers_mentioned: Apple, Huge
- gradients: 0

## Body

Off Book | The Universal Arts of Graphic Design | PBS Skip to Main Content The Universal Arts of Graphic Design Special | 6m 5sVideo has Closed Captions | CC OFF BOOK explores how graphic design defines the world we interact with every day. Though often overlooked, Graphic Design surrounds us: it is the signs we read, the products we buy, and the rooms we inhabit. Graphic designers find beauty within limitations, working towards the ultimate goal of visually communicating a message. Utilizing a language of type and imagery, graphic designers try to make every aspect of our lives defined and beautiful. 11/30/2012 | Rating NR From Problems playing video? | Closed Captioning Feedback Report a Problem Before you submit an error, please consult our Video Help page.Type of ErrorVideo doesn’t loadVideo loads, but doesn’t playVideo jumps back/forwardOnly audio is streamingSponsorship playback errorOther Problems playing video? | Closed Captioning Feedback Report a Problem Before you submit an error, please consult our Video Help page.Type of ErrorVideo doesn’t loadVideo loads, but doesn’t playVideo jumps back/forwardOnly audio is streamingSponsorship playback errorOther About This Special Transcript You Might Also Like The Universal Arts of Graphic Design Special | 6m 5sVideo has Closed Captions | CC Though often overlooked, Graphic Design surrounds us: it is the signs we read, the products we buy, and the rooms we inhabit. Graphic designers find beauty within limitations, working towards the ultimate goal of visually communicating a message. Utilizing a language of type and imagery, graphic designers try to make every aspect of our lives defined and beautiful. 11/30/2012 | Rating NR From Problems playing video? | Closed Captioning Feedback Report a Problem Before you submit an error, please consult our Video Help page.Type of ErrorVideo doesn’t loadVideo loads, but doesn’t playVideo jumps back/forwardOnly audio is streamingSponsorship playback errorOther Genre Arts and Music Maturity Rating NR Follow Us Share This Video Embed Video Off Book The Universal Arts of Graphic Design SNaN Ep0 Fixed iFrame Width: in pixelspxHeight: in pixelspx Responsive iFrame Link Copied to Clipboard How to Watch Off Book Off Book is available to stream on pbs.org and the free PBS App, available on iPhone, Apple TV, Android TV, Android smartphones, Amazon Fire TV, Amazon Fire Tablet, Roku, Samsung Smart TV, LG TV, and Vizio. Stream Here on PBS.org Download the PBS App Check Your Local Listings for Broadcast Schedules Related to This Special The Effect of Color OFF BOOK explores how color influences our society, lives, and culture. How will the Animated GIF affect the Presidential Election? The Animated GIF seems to be everywhere this election cycle. Will it affect the outcome? We ? Retro Media: Vinyl, VHS, Tapes & Film Vinyl, cassettes, and other retro media have made a surprising revival in the digital era. The Impact of Twitter on Journalism Twitter has shaped the world of journalism - and news - in unprecedented ways. Open in new tab [music playing] DREW FREEMAN: First and foremost, graphic design has to communicate something. But good graphic design makes people's lives better. STEVE ATTARDO: You have to find a way to make sense of how to make something beautiful. And to me, you're speaking for them. EMILY OBERMAN: As a graphic designer, concept is the first thing, idea, and life. DEBBIE MILLMAN: Graphic design is essentially a language for living. [applause] Graphic design is about using words and images to convey a message. Graphic designers have to know a lot about color theory, typography, how to create a grid. But those are all really basic. You have to be somebody that is really interested in understanding human behavior, being able to understand how they think, how they choose, how they buy, how they believe. People probably don't think about how much graphic design impacts them. We use graphic design to cross the street, to decide what we want to eat and how much we want to eat. We use graphic design to pay our bills, to get married. We use graphic design to get divorced. We use graphic design in every single aspect of human life right now. And people tend to like things best when they feel that they are respected by that thing. But I think ultimately if it moves you, whether it be a good emotion or a bad emotion, chances are then it's effective, because it's getting you to think about something and it's getting you to potentially take action. EMILY OBERMAN: When I work on package design, I like for there to be an idea behind it. I like for there to be some wit, some language, some feeling that there is a human hand behind what you are interacting with. Like for instance, matchbooks are one of my favorite things to design. It's this nice, intimate moment between you and the smoker or candlelight, because you have the reveal that can be completely surprising. For the spice market, we turn them into these little incense boxes. I like to think about the product like I'm the consumer. So when we were working on the Kleenex project, we learned that for some people choosing which pattern on the box to take home is a huge part of their day. So I think about what would give me a moment's pleasure when interacting with that thing. The Mercer Hotel was a really interesting project that was very clean and very understated and witty, and not necessarily witty in the design, but also witty in the language. Like for instance, there's always that sign on the bathrobe that says if you take it, you're going to have to pay for it. But we didn't want to say it in such a crass way, so we just made a sign that very simply said, "disrobe." And then when you turned it over it said, "is available for purchase in the lobby." And so sometimes maybe beautiful isn't exactly what it should be. Maybe it needs to be quirky, or maybe it needs to be ugly, or maybe it needs to be invisible. So I think you're always solving what it has to look like visually based on what it needs to be conceptually. DREW FREEMAN: A lot of times when people talk about signage and environmental graphics, they think that it always involves letters. But it really involves landmarks, creating a moment that somebody remembers and immediately understands. Graphic designers aren't trained necessarily to think in dimension, but you do need to identify things within space that the architecture wouldn't necessarily be doing otherwise, through color and type and light. Working on the signage for Bloomberg's offices, they wanted people to use the stairs. We thought if people are intended to use the space, why don't we at least make it interesting to use. If you can make the space interesting, people will want to be there. It really involves creating a moment that somebody remembers and immediately understands. Bridge designs are decorations that we had proposed for the City of Pittsburgh. And our proposal was to essentially make those moments special moments. So it could just be a paint job or it could be using light in a certain way to highlight that feature as a gateway to the North Side. Every building has a timeline of your experience with it. What's the cover of this book? And then how does that play out as one navigates through the space, where your mind actually solves a problem? So there's a process of discovery there. STEVE ATTARDO: Should you judge a book by its cover? I would really like to say yes, but I think that there's a lot of really good books out there that don't have good covers. My guiding philosophy in design is forever going to change, I think. You have to understand the responsibility you have in terms of there's someone at the end of the line there that actually cares about what you're doing, and you have to give it a voice. I never like to pin myself down to one different style. To me, that's what's fun about design, as opposed to an illustrator's style. You can wear different hats. The artistic expressi
