# Web 2.0 Became An Outdated Term | Progressive Advertiser

URL: https://web.archive.org/web/20100303213505/http://www.progressiveadvertiser.com/web-2-0-becoming-an-outdated-term/
Source: web.archive.org
Fetched: 20260603-231142
Cycle: 13
Quality: 0.89
Language: en
On-topic: yes
Body: 5252 chars, ~836 words

## Design signals
- top_colors: —
- fonts: About This, Alexa Crawls Starting, Alexa Internet, All Rights Reserved, Apple Inc, Became More Like, Crawl Data, Daily News, Design Trends, Feb MAR Apr, From One, Google Trends, Greatest Hits, Intellectual Property, Interesting Facts, Internet Archive, News Articles, Outdated Term, Progressive Advertiser, READ MORE, Read More, Social Media, Steve Jobs, Success Stories, TIMESTAMPS The Wayback, The Author, The Internet, The Past, The Wayback Machine, Wayback Machine, Web Development, Why High, Your Business
- designers_mentioned: Apple
- gradients: 0

## Body

48 captures 08 Oct 2009 - 27 Oct 2025 Feb MAR Apr 03 2009 2010 2011 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Organization: Alexa Crawls Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive. Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period. Collection: alexa_web_2010 this data is currently not publicly accessible. TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20100303213505/http://www.progressiveadvertiser.com:80/web-2-0-becoming-an-outdated-term/ Web 2.0 Became An Outdated Term | Progressive Advertiser Social Media & Web Marketing Buzz Daily news & creative ideas for progressive marketers Don’t let your brand sink… Subscribe for RSS | Apply for our Our Marketing Services Home News Ideas Web Marketing Social Media Success Stories Top Ads Viral Videos Reader Submitted Web 2.0 Became An Outdated Term October 01, 2009 By: Sergey Rusak Category: News, Social Media 1,326 people read this post so far! Stumble it! Web 2.0 term emerged in 2004 to describe new websites, design trends, and applications. Many will agree that Web 2.0 term was used to show that Internet has changed and became better and at some point smarter. Many technology companies were using term to show that dotcom bubble in the past and Internet is different now. Web 2.0 term became a powerful term to sell new products such as application, scripts, web design, software, web tools etc. By the middle of 2007 term was overused and Google Trends (see graph below) shows that search volume for the term used to be extremely high. After 2007 less people began to use web 2.0 term and in 2009 it became clear that term is completely outdated. From one point it is became clear that nothing changed, we still have the same Internet like in 1995 but with higher speed, more options, and better interface. From another site, it is became easy to build websites, blogs, and flashy design, even middle school kid can build “Web 2.0″ blog with flashy design and buttons. At one point Web 2.0 became more like digital narcissism since people began to add 2.0 to everything: Design 2.0, Social Network 2.0, Enterprise 2.0, even Porn 2.0. Google News is another factor which show decline in usage of Web 2.0 as a term. Graph shows that after 2007 less media outlets and publishers use web 2.0 terms in stories and news articles. What is Web 2.0? Is it overused and outdated? (video by http://www.fitforcommerce.com/ ) Visitors To This Post Also Read Controversy Around Breast Cancer Awareness Commercial Called "Save the Boobs". Some People Think That it is Way to Sexy. Who is This Girl in Progressive Insurance TV Commercials? 100 Greatest Hits of YouTube in 4 Minutes MEGAWOOSH 2nd Attempt - Bruno Kammerl FAIL Controversial WWF 9/11 Ad Became Viral. WWF-Brazil Regrets Decision to Approve Video. Related Posts from The Past: Research Reveals: More than 50% Adults in United States Use Social Sites Research Reveals: Most Twitter Posts is “Pointless Babble” Twitter Has Killed RSS, Trackbacks, Comments, and Inbound Links. Social Media Pillows. The Best Gift for Geeks & Social Media Freaks. Twitter to Allow Advertising Your Ad Here Tags: internet, Social Media, social networking, web 2.0, web development Trackback URI | Comments RSS Leave a Reply ← Starbucks Via Marketing Campaign Met Opposition. Is it Company Smart Move or Big Failure. Resent News Web 2.0 Became An Outdated Term Starbucks Via Marketing Campaign Met Opposition. Is it Company Smart Move or Big Failure. Online Marketing Became More Popular Than TV Advertising in UK Controversy Around Breast Cancer Awareness Commercial Called “Save the Boobs”. Some People Think That it is Way to Sexy. Refreshingly Brazilian, a Bit more exciting. Marketing Campaign by Bit Copa. Popular News Viral Waterslide Video Turned to be Fake. Why High Website Traffic Can't Guarantee Profit & How Monetize It Our Survey: What Successful Bloggers Tell About Business Blogging. 30 Interesting Facts About Apple Inc & Steve Jobs Unique Advertising Idea With $79.55 Budget More Resources Previous News 7 Components of Total Search Engine Domination for Your Business Controversy Around Breast Cancer Awareness Commercial Called Save the Boobs. Some People Think That it is Way to Sexy. Adidas Creations of Dimitri Kalagas and Chris Cook SERP reputation management. How to attract more positive reviews and improve online visibility. Research Reveals: More than 50% Adults in United States Use Social Sites More Resources Your Ad Here Publish… ... have marketing story to tell or viral ad to upload? Submit News Story Submit Photo Ads Submit Video Viral Photo Ads More Viral Photos Viral Video Ad We Picked More Viral Ads More Resources Your Ad Here Meet the Author: Sergey Rusak read more... Need Marketing Advice? Feel Free to Ask Progressive Advertiser | Boston, Massachusetts © 1999-2009 All Rights Reserved. Progressive Advertiser is online network for marketers. We publish news related to advertising industry, marketing trends, creative ideas, and successful promotional campaigns. All Content and Intellectual Property is under Copyright Protection. Our Network: TechWeb Media | Progressive Advertiser | The Visibility | BlogUpper
