# A Complete guide to financial minimalism - Personal Finance

URL: https://web.archive.org/web/20230823063025/https://www.finmoov.com/a-complete-guide-to-financial-minimalism/
Source: web.archive.org
Fetched: 20260603-234703
Cycle: 14
Quality: 0.90
Language: en
On-topic: yes
Body: 13908 chars, ~2332 words

## Design signals
- top_colors: —
- fonts: ALL TIMES, About This, All Rights Reserved, Amazon Prime, And How, And More, And What, Are You, Big Three, But What, CHECK OUT OUR, Check Out, Complete Guide, Facebook Twitter, First Place, Five Years, For You, Jul AUG Sep, Less Than, Matter, Our Newsletter, POLICY TERMS, Policy Terms, Privacy Policy, Privacy Policy Terms, RELATED ARTICLESMORE FROM, Social Networks, Stock Market, TIMESTAMPS The Wayback, Teach You, The Day, The End, The Future, The Journey, The List, The Most Common, The Number, The Psychology, The Time, The Top, The Wayback Machine, The World, Thinking About, Used For, Want You, Wayback Machine, What Can You, What Does, What Does That, Will Crumble, Will Remain, You Can, You See, You Think, You Want
- designers_mentioned: Apple
- gradients: 0

## Body

A Complete guide to financial minimalism - Personal Finance 6 captures 31 Jan 2023 - 29 May 2024 Jul AUG Sep 23 2022 2023 2024 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Collection: Wikipedia Eventstream TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20230823063025/https://www.finmoov.com/a-complete-guide-to-financial-minimalism/ Home Markets Research Charts Sector Performance Clean Energy Why are gas prices going up? Explained ! Admin - August 11, 2023 0 Research The Journey of wealth : how did brooke ashley hall get rich ? Admin - August 8, 2023 0 Personal Finance The Notorious Tale of John Wayne Gacy’s Wealth fortune and how he get rich ? Admin - July 27, 2023 0 Markets Comprehensive Research on Mobile phone market in India ( 2023 ) Admin - May 5, 2023 0 Markets Comparing the Big Three: An Insight into TESLA, GM, and Ford’s Financial Performance in Q4 2022 Admin - February 3, 2023 0 Personal Finance 5 Games that teach you about money Admin - November 23, 2022 0 Personal Finance A Complete guide to financial minimalism Admin - November 22, 2022 0 Personal Finance forbearance vs deferment of student loans , Which is better? Admin - November 22, 2022 0 Personal Finance How to pay off debt fast with low income Admin - November 22, 2022 1 Markets Best 3D printing Stocks and ETFs to invest Admin - November 21, 2022 0 Sign in Welcome! Log into your account Forgot your password? Get help Password recovery Recover your password A password will be e-mailed to you. Clean Energy Why are gas prices going up? Explained ! Admin - August 11, 2023 0 Research The Journey of wealth : how did brooke ashley hall get rich ? Admin - August 8, 2023 0 Personal Finance The Notorious Tale of John Wayne Gacy’s Wealth fortune and how he get rich ? Admin - July 27, 2023 0 Markets Comprehensive Research on Mobile phone market in India ( 2023 ) Admin - May 5, 2023 0 Markets Comparing the Big Three: An Insight into TESLA, GM, and Ford’s Financial Performance in Q4 2022 Admin - February 3, 2023 0 Personal Finance 5 Games that teach you about money Admin - November 23, 2022 0 Personal Finance A Complete guide to financial minimalism Admin - November 22, 2022 0 Personal Finance forbearance vs deferment of student loans , Which is better? Admin - November 22, 2022 0 Personal Finance How to pay off debt fast with low income Admin - November 22, 2022 1 Markets Best 3D printing Stocks and ETFs to invest Admin - November 21, 2022 0 Home Markets Research Charts Sector Performance Login Home Markets Research Charts Sector Performance Login Home Personal Finance A Complete guide to financial minimalism Personal Finance Facebook Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp Complete guide to achieve Financial minimalism Financial minimalism is about achieving financial freedom through being financially responsible, financially intentional and financially conscious. But what does that mean exactly? Financially responsible; means taking responsibility for your financial situation. Financially intentional; means decluttering your finances and being intentional about where your money is going at all times. Financially conscious; means becoming consciously aware and maintaining that awareness of your financial responsibility, and ability to change your own financial outcomes. So in this guide to financial minimalism, I plan to share a hand full of ways that you can become more financially responsible, more financially intentional, and more financially conscious. And always this conversation will be organized in a way that’s easy to follow and learn. So if you’re looking to step up your game, and regain control of your life and your money then this guide is for you. Let’s jump into it. Financially responsible in financial minimalism As I just mentioned this means taking responsibility for your financial situation. Now I purposefully chose to start this conversation here because it’s where my wife and I both started in our journey, and without this solid foundation, any sort of positive financial future you desire to build will crumble. before you even have the chance the lay the first brick. How do we develop a strong foundation with financial responsibility? Achieve financial minimalism start with Becoming Financially Responsible No.1 own your finances. The first step to becoming financially responsible is taking responsibility. And to be Frank, it’s not going to be easy. Which is likely why many of us default to taking the easy route. We simply bury our heads in the sand, refusing to face our finances head-on, in hopes that the darkness will somehow make the guilt, overwhelm, frustration, and embarrassment fade away. But news flash it doesn’t just fade away. We can’t just close our eyes on our own reality. Instead have to own our finances and acknowledge how and what needs to change. No.2 Educate yourself. Financial savvy is not something we’re born with, and our school system sadly doesn’t prioritize this important life skill. So we have to learn “how to manage money” on our own and share those learnings with our families and communities. See, the more interest you take in learning financial responsibility, the less likely you are to develop bad habits that lead to financial struggle and ruin. Educating yourself is the best second, first step you can take hands down. And fortunately, there is a wealth of information available to you, through books, videos, podcasts, advisors and classes that can help expand your knowledge and raise your money management IQ. No.3 Take action. But take action towards what? I’m glad you asked. Take action towards getting out of debt. Towards getting on a budget. Towards saving for your future. Towards learning how to control your spending habits. See if you’re going take the time to educate yourself, then you might as well apply what you’re learning. If not, not only are you wasting your time but you’re also stifling your growth—financially, mentally, and spiritually. Without action, your financial situation will remain the same. Doubt about your future will begin to tarnish your mind,and you’ll eventually start to no longer believe that you can change your situation—crunching your faith. No.4 Stabilize your income. In the last few Articles I posted, especially those on the topic of managing money, I took note of a hand full of comments that talked about not making enough money, or having a low income so I can’t save much, or the light-hearted comments about how your bank account is minimalist. And if that is you, then this tip is for you. Stabilizing your income is about taking the necessary steps to have enough money coming in every month that affords you the pleasure of making financial progress and improving your skills in managing money. So if your current situation isn’t as stable as you would like or need it to be, then start thinking about skills you have or services you can offer that can generate additional income for you. Additionally, ask yourself what can you bring to the table at your current job or any job that’s worth them paying you more. Regardless of what you do, remember that stability is key and you must have that financially because that’s the responsible thing to do. No.5 Set financial goals. As a quick refresher, in case you haven’t seen any of my previous articles. Your financial goals should break down into three categories. Short-term, mid-term, and long-term. Now short-term goals are anything that you can accomplish, ideally, in one year or less. And this can be flexible depending on your goals and how aggressive you’re able to attack them. For us, paying off debt and cash flowing our wedding we’re at the top of our short-term goals list. And we successfully accomplished both of them within this short window. Mid-term goals should fall anywhere between 2 to 5years. And again this is flexible depending on your goals and strategies to accomplish them. So think about savings goals or a large purchase you’re interested in making. A down paym
