# Functional organization for color and orientation in macaque V4 - PubMed

URL: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/21076422
Source: pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov
Fetched: 20260604-003540
Cycle: 16
Quality: 0.96
Language: en
On-topic: yes
Body: 12713 chars, ~2060 words

## Design signals
- top_colors: —
- fonts: AMA APA MLA, About The, Actions Search, And That, Bibliography Your, Bookshelf Disclaimer The, Cite Format, Clipboard Email Save, Collections Add, Copyright Information, Email Address, FULL TEXT, Figures Figure, Format Abstract PubMed, Free PMC, Full Text, Full Text Sources, Homepage Main Content, Human Services, Main Content, Main Navigation, Main Navigation Clipboard, Manager NCBI Literature, MeSH Add, NCBI Homepage MyNCBI, NLM Send, PMID Save, PubMed Central, PubMed Central Full, PubMed Clipboard, PubMed Disclaimer Figures, PubMed Publication, PubMed Search, RSS Feed, Resources MeSH PMC, Search Actions Search, Search Grants, Search History, Search MeSH, The CIE, The Center, The Key, The Role, The Visual, United States LinkOut, You Are, Your RSS Feed
- designers_mentioned: Stripe
- gradients: 0

## Body

Functional organization for color and orientation in macaque V4 - PubMed Clipboard, Search History, and several other advanced features are temporarily unavailable. Skip to main page content The .gov means it’s official. Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you’re on a federal government site. The site is secure. The https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely. Access keys NCBI Homepage MyNCBI Homepage Main Content Main Navigation Clipboard My Bibliography Collections Citation manager Display options Format Abstract PubMed PMID Save citation to file Email citation Email address has not been verified. Go to My NCBI account settings to confirm your email and then refresh this page. Add to Collections Add to My Bibliography Your saved search Create a file for external citation management software Your RSS Feed Display options Format AbstractPubMedPMID Abstract Visual area V4 in the macaque monkey is a cortical area that is strongly involved in color and shape perception. However, fundamental questions about V4 are still debated. V4 was initially characterized as a color-processing area, but subsequent studies revealed that it contains a diverse complement of cells, including those with preference for color, orientation, disparity and higher-order feature preferences. This has led to disputes and uncertainty about the role of V4 in vision. Using intrinsic signal optical imaging methods in awake, behaving monkeys, we found that different feature preferences are functionally organized in V4. Optical images revealed that regions with preferential response to color were largely separate from orientation-selective regions. Our results help to resolve long-standing controversies regarding functional diversity and retinotopy in V4 and indicate the presence of spatially biased distribution of featural representation in V4 in the ventral visual pathway. PubMed Disclaimer Figures Figure 1. Examples of time course of… Figure 1. Examples of time course of stimulus-evoked reflectance change in V4 ( a )… Figure 1. Examples of time course of stimulus-evoked reflectance change in V4 (a) Sampled sites indicated by black crosses on an image of exposed V4 cortical surface taken under 570 nm illumination. Scale bar, 1 mm. (b-f) Time courses of average reflectance change (ΔR/R) under 632 nm illumination at the sampled sites (160 μm in diameter) in response to a stimulus patch containing one of four gratings (red: 45° RG, orange: 135° RG, blue: 45° Lum, blue: 135° Lum; see Methods for details). The response values were taken from the single condition map, in which high-pass filtering and blank subtraction were applied. Error bars represent SEM. Figure 2. Functional maps of color/luminance and… Figure 2. Functional maps of color/luminance and orientation sensitivity in foveal V4 ( a , … Figure 2. Functional maps of color/luminance and orientation sensitivity in foveal V4 (a,b) Views of the cortical surface including dorsal V4 through the imaging chamber. The white rectangles indicate the imaged regions (a, case 1; b, case 3). (c–f) Difference maps in response to isoluminant red/green gratings versus luminance-contrast achromatic gratings (c,e, RG – Lum) and gratings tilted counterclockwise 45° versus 135° from the horizontal (d,f, 45° – 135°). In these maps, dark versus light pixels represent greater response to RG versus Lum (c,e) and 45° versus 135° (d,f). Gratings above the maps indicate the subtraction pair for each difference map. (g–j) Statistical maps show significant differences in response to RG versus Lum (g,i) and 45° versus 135° (h,j) (two-tailed t-test, n = 414 trials for case 1 and 236 trials for case 3). Colored areas indicate significantly larger response to one of paired conditions, according to the key shown at the right. (k–n) Statistical maps revealed byusing two-way ANOVAs show regions with a significant main effect of stimulus color type (RG/Lum) (k,m, magenta), with a significant main effect of stimulus orientation (k,m, green), and with a significant interaction (l,n, white). In g–n, the brightness of color indicates the significance level, P < 0.05 (dark) and P < 0.0001 (bright), uncorrected, and dark gray regions indicate pixels with large cross-trial variability (see Methods). The sampled sites in Figure 1 are shown by black crosses in k. lu, lunate sulcus; st, superior temporal sulcus; io, inferior occipital sulcus; A, anterior; D, dorsal. Scale bar, 1 mm in c–n. Figure 3. Functional maps of color/luminance and… Figure 3. Functional maps of color/luminance and orientation sensitivity in parafoveal V4 ( a – … Figure 3. Functional maps of color/luminance and orientation sensitivity in parafoveal V4 (a–g) Data from a parafoveal V4 (~ 5° eccentricity) of the same animal as case 1 (case 2; n = 400 trials). Conventions are as for Figure 2. (h) Overlay of the maps of RG/Lum-sensitive (magenta) and orientation-sensitive (green) regions in the foveal (Fig. 2k) and parafoveal V4 (f), aligned using the surface blood vessel pattern. Note also, magenta and green regions in V2, consistent with thin and thick/pale stripe organization, respectively,. Scale bar, 1 mm. Figure 4. Overall spatial pattern of modulation… Figure 4. Overall spatial pattern of modulation by the stimulus at different locations in the… Figure 4. Overall spatial pattern of modulation by the stimulus at different locations in the visual field (a–f) Response to shifting the polar angle. Regions with a significant difference in response to RG versus Lum (a–c, case 3) and to 45° versus 135° (d–f), presented at a different polar angle with the same eccentricity as illustrated above (two-tailed t-test, n = 161 for a,d, 159 for b,e, and 151 trials for c,f). The center of stimuli was located at polar angles of 22.5° for a,d, 45° for b,e, and 67.5° for c,f from the vertical meridian and an eccentricity of 1.5°. As the stimulus location moved away from the vertical meridian along a line of isoeccentricity, the overall activation shifted from posterior to anterior (use vertical red lines as guide). (g–l) Response to shifting the eccentricity. Regions with a significant difference in response to RG versus Lum (g–i) and to 45° versus 135° (j–l), presented at a different eccentricity along an isopolar axis as illustrated above (two-tailed t-test, n = 164 for g,j, 159 for h,k, and 159 trials for i,l). The center of stimuli was located at a polar angle of 45° from the vertical meridian and at eccentricities of 0.5° for g,j, 1.5° for h,k, and 2.5° for i,l. As the stimulus location moved towards larger eccentricities, the overall activation shifted from ventral to dorsal (use horizontal red lines as guide). The size of grating patches was 1° in diameter. Scale bar, 1 mm. Figure 5. Functional maps of orientation preference… Figure 5. Functional maps of orientation preference in V4 ( a , b ) Difference… Figure 5. Functional maps of orientation preference in V4 (a,b) Difference maps to orthogonally oriented gratings (a, 0° −90°; b, 45° −135°; case 1). Dark versus light pixels represent greater response to 0° versus 90° (a) and 45° versus 135° (b). (c) Color-coded polar map of orientation preference (orientation preference indicated by hue and magnitude of orientation selectivity by brightness. Pure black regions represent pixels without significant selectivity for orientation (ANOVA, 4 orientations, P > 0.05, uncorrected, n = 690 trials). (d–f) Data from another animal (case 3; n = 468 trials). Conventions are as for a–c. (g–i) Angle maps of regions in white frames in c and f (frame 1, g; frame 2, h; frame 3, i). In these maps, all hues are saturated in brightness to indicate only orientation preference. Scale bar, 1 mm in a–f and 0.5 mm in g–i. Figure 6. Functional map of hue preference… Figure 6. Functional map of hue preference in V4 ( a ) Left: stim
