# De Stijl - Wikiquote

URL: https://en.wikiquote.org/wiki/De_Stijl
Source: en.wikiquote.org
Fetched: 20260603-203241
Cycle: 10
Quality: 1.00
Language: en
On-topic: yes
Body: 21060 chars, ~3563 words

## Design signals
- top_colors: —
- fonts: Abstract Art, Abstract Expressionism, Abstract Human, Action Painting, American Art, And That, Art Deco, Art Nouveau, Art Show, Black Square, Blue Chair, Century Art, Commons Wikimedia Commons, Der Blaue Reiter, First Place, First Time, From This, From Wikipedia, Gerrit Rietveld, Golden Age, High Renaissance, His Work, Hudson River, International Gothic, Land Art, Les Nabis, Media Art, Modern Art, New Art, New Media, New Objectivity, Nieuwe Beelding, Not For, Performance Art, Piet Mondrian, Plastic Art, Pop Art, Reaktion Books, Robert Motherwell, Samuel Beckett, Stedelijk Museum, Stijl Add, Stijl Art, Studio Vista, THE FORM, THE USE, The Art, The BBC, The Color, The Dutch Contribution, The Evolution, The Form, The Foundation, The Future, The Group, The Idea, The Museum, The New, The New Plastic, The Past, The Period, The Problem, The Real, The Rhythm, The Sea, The Style, The Time, The Universe, The Use, The War, Theo Van, They Want, Typographic Style, Use This, Van Doesburg, Vienna School, Visual Arts, Wassily Kandinsky, What They, Where There, Wikimedia Commons, Wikipedia Wikipedia, Wikiquote Jump, You Can
- designers_mentioned: Bauhaus, Together, Wassily Kandinsky
- gradients: 0

## Body

De Stijl - Wikiquote Jump to content From Wikiquote cover of magazine 'De Stijl' no. 9, Dec. 1921 / Jan. 1922, with 'Composition 17.' by Piet Mondrian, 1919 De Stijl / The Style / Neoplasticism - in quotes. De Stijl [Dutch for 'The Style', also known as 'Neoplasticism'], was a Dutch modern art movement founded in 1917 in Amsterdam. De Stijl consisted of artists and architects. Proponents of De Stijl movement advocated pure abstraction and universality in painting art; they simplified visual compositions to the vertical and horizontal directions, and used only primary colours, along with black and white. Quotes of De Stijl[edit] sorted chronologically, after date of the quotes on De Stijl / The Style / Neoplaticism Piet Mondrian, 1914: 'Tableau III', painting Theo van Doesburg, c. 1916: 'Sphere', oil on canvas Piet Mondrian, 1917: 'Composition with flat colors 5. Theo van Doesburg, 1918: 'Study for Composition VIII (The Cow)' Theo van Doesburg, 1918: 'Rhythm of a Russian Dance Piet Mondrian, 1921: 'Composition' Vantongerloo, 1921: furniture Rietveld and Huszar: 'Space-Colour-Composition' for the Art Show in Berlin, 1923 Bart van der Leck, c. 1923: Composition Gerrit Rietveld, c. 1923: final version of the 'Red blue chair' Piet Mondrian, 1925: 'Tableau N VII, painting Theo van Doesburg, design of Ciné-dancing, 'Aubette', in Strassbourg, 1926-1928 Piet Mondrian, 1930: 'Composition II in Red, Blue, and Yellow' Vantongerloo, 1930: 'Cubist shield of R-26' Quotes, 1912 - 1925[edit] If the masc. [masculine] is the vertic. [vertical] line, then a man will recognize this element in the rising line of a forest; in the horizont. [horizontal] lines of the sea he will see his complement. Woman, with the horizont. line as element, sees herself in the recumbent lines of the sea, and her complement in the vert. lines of the forest. [on his two paintings 'Sea' and 'Trees', both made in 1912 Quote of a note of Piet Mondrian, in his sketchbook, undated but c. 1912; as quoted in Mondrian, - The Art of Destruction, Carel Blotkamp, Reaktion Books LTD. London 2001, p. 70 For when I construct lines and colour combinations on a flat surface, it is with the aim of portraying 'universally beauty' as consciously as possible. Nature (or that which I see) inspires me, provides me – as it does every painter – with the emotion by which I am moved to create something, but I want to approach the truth as closely as possible, abstracting everything until I come to the foundation – still only an outward foundation! – of things. It is for me a clear truth that one does not want to say something 'specific', it is then that one says what is most specific: the truth (which is of great universality) Quote of Piet Mondrian, in a letter to the Dutch art critic and buyer of Mondrians paintings, H. P. Bremmer, Paris 29 January 1914; as quoted in Mondrian, -The Art of Destruction, Carel Blotkamp, Reaktion Books LTD. London 2001, p. 81 Art is higher than reality and has no direct relation to reality. To approach the spiritual in art, one will make as little use as possible of reality, because reality is opposed to the spiritual. We find ourselves in the presence of an abstract art. Art should be above reality, otherwise it would have no value for man. Quote of Piet Mondrian 1914, from Wikipedia; as cited by Michel Seuphor, in 'Piet Mondrian: Life and Work;Abrams, New York, 1956, p. 117 The problem which Piet Mondrian undertook to solve in nr. 116 [a new painting of Mondrian, exhibited then in the Stedelijk Museum in 1915, Amsterdam] was handled very successfully. This work spiritually dominates all others. It gives the impression of Repose; the repose of the soul. Its pre-determined structure embodies 'becoming' rather than 'being'. This represents a true element in art, for art is not 'being', but 'becoming'. The idea of 'becoming' has been expressed in black and white.. .Through years of hard work my own experiences have led me, before I came to know the theories of Uexkuell or Picasso, to prefer the use of the white-black-grey palette in works of a purely spiritual content.. Quote of Theo van Doesburg (1915), in the Dutch art-magazine: 'Eenheid' (Unity) no. 283, 6 November 1915; as quoted in Theo van Doesburg, Joost Baljeu, Studio Vista, London 1974, p. 105 As you can see this is a composition of vertical and horizontal lines which will (in an abstract manner) have to express the idea of rising upwards, of magnitude. This is the same idea which used, for example, to be the guiding principle in the construction of cathedrals. Since only the manner of expression and not the representation has to express this general idea, I have not given any title. An abstract human mind will, of itself, receive the intended impression. I always confine myself to expressing the general. Quote of Piet Mondrian, in a letter to Theo van Doesburg, Amsterdam, 1915; as quoted in Letters of the great artists, Richard Friedenthal, Thames and Hudson, London, 1963, p. 234 (transl. Daphne Woodward) Since all preceding schools of painting have proved that the spirit of beauty does not lie in nature but in the 'I', now that painting in all its various expressions from Giotto to Cézanne has demonstrated that all beauty is in the 'I', that the 'I' is all emotion and that beyond the 'I' nothing can exist because all being exists only in relationship with the 'I', now the time has come to develop from this 'I' a new style. As soon as this 'I' becomes the general, universal 'I' instead of the individualistic or the rationalistic one, the new style will be a general style. [Van Doesburg is announcing here more or less 'De Stijl' movement] Quote of Theo van Doesburg (1916), in his article 'The new Style in painting', in Dutch magazine 'De Avondpost' 2 May 1916 The new plastic idea [= De Stijl / Neo-Plasticism] cannot, therefore, take the form of concrete representation, although the latter does always indicate the universal to a degree, or at least conceal it within. This new plastic idea will ignore the particulars of appearance, that is to say, natural form and colour. On the contrary it should find its expression in the abstraction of form and colour, that is to say, in the straight line and the clearly defined primary colour. Quote of Piet Mondrian (1917), in 'De Nieuwe Beelding in de Schilderkunst', Piet Mondriaan, in 'De Stijl' No. 1, October 1917; as quoted in Letters of the great artists, Richard Friedenthal, Thames and Hudson, London 1963, p. 236 The development of plastic art is determined by the will to visualize. Art of the past represented the subjective vision of 'naturalistic relationships'. Neo-Plasticism [= De Stijl ] embodies a subjective vision of 'plastic relationships'.. .Pure thought, which does not signify a concept derived from natural phenomena but which is contained in numbers, measures, relationships and abstract lines, is revealed conceptually (as Reason) by Chinese, Greek and German philosophy, and aesthetically by contemporary Neo-plasticism. Quote of Theo van Doesburg (1918), in his art-review, 'Thought – Vision – Creation', published in art-magazine 'De Stijl' Vol ll, 2 December 1918; as quoted in Theo van Doesburg, Joost Baljeu, Studio Vista, London 1974, pp. 108-109 And then about whether or not to work from a given in nature. In my view, you [[w:Theo van Doesburg|Theo van Doesburg] define this in a rather narrow sense. In the main, I do agree with you that the destruction of the natural, and it reconstruction, must be accomplished according to a spiritual image, but I believe that we should take a broad view here. What is natural does not have to be a representation of something. I'm now working on a thing that is a reconstruction of a starry sky [in the painting: Composition, Checkerboard Dark Colours, 1919] and yet I'm making it without a given from nature. Someone who says he uses a theme from nature can be right, but also someone who says he uses nothing at all. Quote of Piet Mondrian in his
