# Wim Crouwel - Wikipedia

URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wim_Crouwel&amp;oldid=1343438067
Source: en.wikipedia.org
Fetched: 20260603-202837
Cycle: 10
Quality: 1.00
Language: en
On-topic: yes
Body: 7397 chars, ~1080 words

## Design signals
- top_colors: —
- fonts: Academie Minerva, Akademie Voor Kunst, And That, Anton Stankowski, Anton Stankowski Prize, Art School, Artists Museum, BIS Publishers, BKVB Funds Oeuvre, BiographieOther SNAC, Brett Wickens, Creative Review, Culture Studies, David Quay, Delft University, Design For, Design Studio, Directors Club, Dutch IPA All, Dutch PTT, Dutch Rabobank, Eye Magazine, Fine Arts, France BnF, Frans Duwaer Prize, Frans Duwaerprijs, Freda Sack, Frederike Huygen, From Wikidata, From Wikipedia, GNDNational United States, Gerrit Noordzij, Gerrit Noordzij Prize, Gerrit Rietveld, Gerrit Rietveld Academie, Graphic Designer, Graphic Designers, Gridnik Crouwel, His Own, His Own Words, His Work, Honorary Doctorate, Hugues Boekraad, INDUSTRIAL DESIGN, Industrial Design, Industry Hidden, Joy Division, Kees Broos, Kerry William, Kerry William Purcell, Kho Liang, Lauwen Books, Minerva Gerrit Rietveld, Modern Art, Modern Art Authority, Modern ArtPeople Deutsche, Modern Method, Museum Boijmans Van, New Alphabet, New Alphabet Type, Number Postage Stamps, Own Words, Piet Zwart Prize, Piet Zwart Prizes, Royal Academy, Royal Designers, Saville Associates, States France BnF, Stedelijk Museum, TDC Medal, THE USE, Technology Academic, The Design, The Font, The Founders, The Foundry, The Foundry Types, The Free Encyclopedia, The Limitations, The Museum, The Netherlands, The Number, The Royal Academy, The TDC, The Type Directors, The Typeface, The Use, The Wayback Machine, Total Design, Total Designer, Total Identity, Type Designers, Type Director Club, Type Directors Club, Typographic Architectures, Typographic Style, ULAN RKD Artists, United States France, Wayback Machine, Wayback Machine Wim, Werkman Prize, Wikidata Articles, Wikidata Webarchive, Wikimedia Commons, Wikipedia Jump, Willem Hendrik, Willem Hendrik Crouwel, Wim Crouwel, Wim Crouwel Add, Wim Crouwel Architype, Wim Crouwel Crouwel, Wim Crouwel Modernist, Wim Crouwel Site
- designers_mentioned: Total Design, Wim Crouwel
- gradients: 0

## Body

Wim Crouwel - Wikipedia Jump to content From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Dutch graphic designer, type designer, and typographer (1928–2019) Wim Crouwel Crouwel in 1976Born Willem Hendrik Crouwel (1928-11-21)21 November 1928 Groningen, NetherlandsDied19 September 2019(2019-09-19) (aged 90) Amsterdam, NetherlandsEducationAcademie Minerva Gerrit Rietveld AcademieKnown forTypographer, Graphic designerNotable workNew AlphabetAwardsH.N. Werkmanprijs 1958/1966 Frans Duwaerprijs 1965 Piet Zwart Prizes 1991 Anton-Stankowski-Preis 1991 BKVB Funds Oeuvre Award 2004 Gerrit Noordzij Prize 2009 Willem Hendrik "Wim" Crouwel (Dutch pronunciation: [ˈʋɪləm ˈɦɛndrɪk ʋɪm ˈkrʌu.əl]; 21 November 1928 – 19 September 2019) was a Dutch graphic designer, type designer, and typographer.[1][2] Early life and education[edit] Between 1947 and 1949, he studied Fine Arts at Academie Minerva in Groningen, the Netherlands. After graduating from a traditional art school, he served for two years in the military. Fresh out of the military, he was hired by an exhibition company in Amsterdam. During an interview in 2011, Crouwel said that his traditional art training hadn't taught him anything about typography, and that he eventually learned it by attending night classes in typography at what is now the Gerrit Rietveld Academie in Amsterdam.[2] Career[edit] Type face New Alphabet Type face Gridnik Crouwel began his career in 1955 creating exhibition, graphic, and product designs along with Kho Liang Ie.[3] In 1963, he was one of the founders of the design studio Total Design (currently named Total Identity). From 1964 onwards, Crouwel was responsible for the design of the posters, catalogues and exhibitions of the Stedelijk Museum in Amsterdam. In 1967 he designed the typeface New Alphabet, a design that embraces the limitations of the cathode-ray tube technology used by early data display screens and phototypesetting equipment, thus only containing horizontal and vertical strokes. Other typefaces from his hand are Fodor and Gridnik. In 1970 he designed the Dutch pavilion for Expo '70 (Osaka, Japan). Later, Crouwel designed the Number Postage Stamps for the Dutch PTT, well known in the Netherlands during its circulation from 1976 to 2002.[4] In the years Crouwel worked for Total Design, he designed many geometric wordmarks,[5] one of which is the wordmark for the Dutch Rabobank, designed in 1973. The lettershapes have been influenced by the fact that the wordmark had to be used as a 3D light box. After the 3D application was finalized, the 2D design for print was adapted.[citation needed] According to Wim Crouwel,[6] New Alphabet was ‘over-the-top and never meant to be really used’. However, as unreadable as it was, it made a comeback in 1988 when designer Brett Wickens used a version of the font on the sleeve of Substance by Joy Division.[7] In addition to his work as a graphic designer, he was also active in the educational field. In the 1950s he worked as a teacher at the Royal Academy for Art and Design in 's-Hertogenbosch (currently called Akademie Voor Kunst en Vormgeving St. Joost or AKV|St. Joost) and at the predecessor of what is now the Gerrit Rietveld Academie. Between 1965 and 1985 he was connected to the department of industrial design of the Delft University of Technology. From 1987 to 1993 he was a professor in the fields of History, Arts and Culture Studies at the Erasmus University Rotterdam. In the years 1985–1993 he was the director of the Museum Boijmans Van Beuningen in Rotterdam.[citation needed] Crouwel's graphic work is especially well known, and respected for the use of grid-based layouts and typography that is rooted in the International Typographic Style.[8] Awards[edit] H. N. Werkman Prize (1958) Frans Duwaer Prize (1965) H. N. Werkman Prize (1966) Piet Zwart Prize (1991) Anton Stankowski Prize (1991) Honorary doctorate TU Delft (1994) BKVB Funds Oeuvre Award (2004) Gerrit Noordzij Prize (2009) Type Director Club's Medal (2019)[3] Literature[edit] Frederike Huygen, Hugues Boekraad, Wim Crouwel: Mode en Module, 010 Publishers, Rotterdam (1997), (ISBN 90-6450-310-9), (Dutch). Kees Broos, Wim Crouwel: Alphabets, BIS Publishers, Amsterdam (2003), (ISBN 90-6369-037-1), (English). Catherine de Smet, Emmanuel Bérard, Wim Crouwel: Architectures Typographiques / Typographic Architectures, Editions F7, Paris (2007), (ISBN 978-2-916796-02-4), (French/English). Kerry William Purcell, "Wim Crouwel: Modern Method", Eye Magazine, No. 79, Spring, 2011. Wim Crouwel 'in his own words' a selection of lectures and articles delivered by Wim Crouwel between 1973 and 2006, ISBN 978 94 90628024 Lauwen Books waysofthinking.nl Frederike Huygen, Wim Crouwel Modernist, Lecturis, Eindhoven (2015), (ISBN 94-6226-147-4), (English). References[edit] ^ Pynor, Rick (1 April 2011). "British designers and tile cult of Crouwel". Creative Review. 31 (4): 56–59. ISSN 0262-1037. ^ a b Orma, Stephanie (2011). "Total Designer: On the occasion of a new retrospective of his work, the legendary Wim Crouwel reflects on his six-decade career". Metropolis (architecture magazine). Vol. 30, no. 10. New York: BELLEROPHON PUBLICATIONS INC. ISSN 0279-4977. Retrieved 13 October 2022. ^ a b "Type Directors Club Awards the TDC Medal to Wim Crouwel". The Type Directors Club. 2019-07-20. Retrieved 2019-08-07. ^ "Iconen van de post". Archived from the original on 2021-08-30. Retrieved 2019-09-20. ^ 'Broos, K, Wim Crouwel: Alphabets, BIS Publishers, Amsterdam (2003), (ISBN 90-6369-037-1) ^ "Wim Crouwel on his 80th birthday (www.design.nl)". Archived from the original on 2022-01-27. Retrieved 2009-10-08. ^ "Brett Wickens on Saville Associates". Archived from the original on 2017-09-09. Retrieved 2010-11-27. ^ "Wim Crouwel: Mr. Gridnik". External links[edit] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Wim Crouwel. Wim Crouwel Site includes articles, chronology, typography, bibliography and gallery of designer's work. Wim Crouwel bio at Iconofgraphics.com Postage stamps designed by Wim Crouwel Architype Crouwel, a collection of typefaces in collaboration between David Quay and Freda Sack of The Foundry and Wim Crouwel now The Foundry Types. The definitive digital version of Gridnik by in collaboration between David Quay and Freda Sack of The Foundry and Wim Crouwel now The Foundry Types. *Kerry William Purcell, "Wim Crouwel: Modern Method", Eye Magazine, No. 79, Spring, 2011 Archived 2012-04-25 at the Wayback Machine Wim Crouwel at the Museum of Modern Art Authority control databases International VIAF GNDNational United States France BnF dataArtists ULAN RKD Artists Museum of Modern ArtPeople Deutsche BiographieOther SNAC Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wim_Crouwel&oldid=1343438067" Categories: 1928 births 2019 deaths Dutch graphic designers Dutch typographers and type designers People from Groningen (city) Academic staff of the Delft University of Technology Academic staff of Erasmus University Rotterdam Gerrit Rietveld Academie alumni Dutch stamp designers Royal Designers for Industry Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Articles with hCards Pages with Dutch IPA All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from August 2019 Commons category link is on Wikidata Webarchive template wayback links Wim Crouwel Add topic
