# A brief history of flat design

URL: https://web.archive.org/web/20141002062650/http://techsamurais.com/?p=1232
Source: web.archive.org
Fetched: 20260604-000301
Cycle: 15
Quality: 1.00
Language: en
On-topic: yes
Body: 4049 chars, ~677 words

## Design signals
- top_colors: —
- fonts: About This, Alexa Crawls Starting, Alexa Internet, Brief History, Crawl Data, Designers That, Flat Design, Got Here, Helvetica, Internet Archive, OvEr ThE, Sans Serif, Sans Serif Typefaces, Sep OCT Nov, Smashing Magazine, Swiss Style, THE USE, TIMESTAMPS The Wayback, The Evolution, The Future, The Internet, The Internet Archive, The Netherlands, The Past, The Use, The Wayback Machine, This Year, Typographic Style, User Interfaces, Wayback Machine, Which Was, Will Not, You Are, You Can, You Don, You Know What
- designers_mentioned: Apple
- gradients: 0

## Body

A brief history of flat design 30 captures 02 Mar 2014 - 04 May 2024 Sep OCT Nov 02 2013 2014 2015 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Organization: Alexa Crawls Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive. Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period. Collection: Alexa Crawls Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive. Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period. TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20141002062650/http://techsamurais.com:80/?p=1232 A brief history of flat design By rob on July 31st, 2013 Flat design has recently become very popular, especially with the flat iOS 7 design from Apple. I’ve really been enjoying flat designs, but I was curious on how we got here. This blog post will cover it’s origins, and the the evolution of flat design. It assumes you know what flat design is, but in case you don’t, here’s a quick crash course that compares iOS 6 and iOS 7 (flat design) icons (infographic provided by pawsupforu): Swiss Style Flat design started with Swiss style (also referred to a International Typographic style), which was a design philisophy for print in the 1950s. It emphasized minimalism, cleanliness, and organization of content above all. The underlying style was already used as far back as the 1920s in other countries as well such as Germany, the Netherlands and Russia, but it was Swiss designers that made it famous. Images sources: Smashing Magazine, AshDowie.co.uk, AisleOne.net, Arantxa Rues As you can see above, Swiss style embraces simplicity and typography over anything else. Some of it’s fundamentals are the use of a grid system for aligning content, and of course sans serif typefaces. Speaking of sans serif typefaces, Helvetica font was also invented in Switzerland during the same era (1957), and “Helvetica” means Switzerland in Latin. Image sources: By 2Canart , imjustcreative.com , Sbradway Evolution of Flat Design Flat design has gained a lot of traction over the last year. It strips away all the “bells and whistles” so to speak, so that you are left with colors, simple shapes and content. Just like for Swiss style designs, designers carefully utilize color, alignment, and simple font faces to create beautiful flat designs. Flat design is really the digital adapatation of Swiss Style design. Arguably, flat design started gaining popularity with the release of Windows 7 Mobile, which introduced live tiles, and unleashed flat design to the average consumer. Flat Design Today Flat design has come a long way since it started getting popular among designers. Over the past couple years, there has been a lot of different mobile and web user interfaces that have been redesigned to be flat. It’s not to say that all flat designs look the same, instead, good designers are able to innovate while keeping their designs flat. The biggest transition to a flat design has been iOS 7, which will be rolled out to all iPhones by Q3 of this year. Apple will be switching from a “flashier” user interface, to a very flat design. I will not be going over my opinion of iOS 7′s design, but the reception so far has been mixed, even among deisngers. Here are 9 amazing flat designs, ranging from mobile to web. Image sources: Buyable, Apple, Weather App, Google+ flat design concept, Flat UI Icons, Weather App, Foundation, Mailbox App, BambooHR, Nextr Conclusion Flat design is the digital adaptation of Swiss style design. We have seen it evolve over the past two years, but is flat design just a fad, or is it here to stay? If so, how will it evolve next? Pingback: The Future of User Interface is Flat | Stuff that matters to you Pingback: Le flat design, une remise à plat de l’expérience utilisateur ? | Spintank Thierry Great blog post! I was wondering where flat design comes from. Thanks! Pingback: Le « Flat Design »: la nouvelle tendance en design d’interface
