# Color-tuned neurons are spatially clustered according to color preference within alert macaque posterior inferior temporal cortex - PMC

URL: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2764907
Source: www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov
Fetched: 20260604-003252
Cycle: 16
Quality: 1.00
Language: en
On-topic: yes
Body: 43199 chars, ~6581 words

## Design signals
- top_colors: —
- fonts: ACTIONS View, AMA APA MLA, About Color, Are The, Associated Data This, Author Contributions, But There, Circular, Color Set, Colour Vision, Data Analysis, Find Articles, From One, Full Color, Google Scholar, Guide PERMALINK, International Commission, Journal List User, Learn More, Lock Locked, Main Content, Matter, Medical School, More Likely, NLM Add, National Institutes, PERMALINK RESOURCES Cite, PMC Copyright, PMC Copyright Notice, PMC Disclaimer, PMC Skip, See Also, THE HIGH, Technical Assistance, The Case, The Color, The Data, The Dimensions, The Distribution, The End, The German, The Human, The Importance, The National, The Nature, The Number, The Origin, The Peak, The Red, The Relationship, The Role, The Time, The Top, The United States, The Visual, This Article, Visual Display, Visual Perception
- designers_mentioned: Notion, Stripe, Together
- gradients: 0

## Body

Color-tuned neurons are spatially clustered according to color preference within alert macaque posterior inferior temporal cortex - PMC Skip to main content Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( Lock Locked padlock icon ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. Journal List User Guide PERMALINK As a library, NLM provides access to scientific literature. Inclusion in an NLM database does not imply endorsement of, or agreement with, the contents by NLM or the National Institutes of Health. Learn more: PMC Disclaimer | PMC Copyright Notice . 2009 Oct 1;106(42):18034–18039. doi: 10.1073/pnas.0810943106 Color-tuned neurons are spatially clustered according to color preference within alert macaque posterior inferior temporal cortex Bevil R Conway Bevil R Conway aNeuroscience Program, Wellesley College, Wellesley, MA 02481; and Find articles by Bevil R Conway a,1, Doris Y Tsao Doris Y Tsao bDivision of Biology, Caltech, Pasadena, CA 91125 Find articles by Doris Y Tsao b aNeuroscience Program, Wellesley College, Wellesley, MA 02481; and bDivision of Biology, Caltech, Pasadena, CA 91125 1 To whom correspondence should be addressed. E-mail: bconway@wellesley.edu Edited by David H. Hubel, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, and approved August 21, 2009 Author contributions: B.R.C. and D.Y.T. designed research; B.R.C. performed research; B.R.C. and D.Y.T. contributed new reagents/analytic tools; B.R.C. analyzed data; and B.R.C. wrote the paper. Received 2008 Oct 29; Issue date 2009 Oct 20. PMC Copyright notice PMCID: PMC2764907 PMID: 19805195 Abstract Large islands of extrastriate cortex that are enriched for color-tuned neurons have recently been described in alert macaque using a combination of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and single-unit recording. These millimeter-sized islands, dubbed “globs,” are scattered throughout the posterior inferior temporal cortex (PIT), a swath of brain anterior to area V3, including areas V4, PITd, and posterior TEO. We investigated the micro-organization of neurons within the globs. We used fMRI to identify the globs and then used MRI-guided microelectrodes to test the color properties of single glob cells. We used color stimuli that sample the CIELUV perceptual color space at regular intervals to test the color tuning of single units, and make two observations. First, color-tuned neurons of various color preferences were found within single globs. Second, adjacent glob cells tended to have the same color tuning, demonstrating that glob cells are clustered by color preference and suggesting that they are arranged in color columns. Neurons separated by 50 μm, measured parallel to the cortical sheet, had more similar color tuning than neurons separated by 100 μm, suggesting that the scale of the color columns is <100 μm. These results show that color-tuned neurons in PIT are organized by color preference on a finer scale than the scale of single globs. Moreover, the color preferences of neurons recorded sequentially along a given electrode penetration shifted gradually in many penetrations, suggesting that the color columns are arranged according to a chromotopic map reflecting perceptual color space. Keywords: column, cone, functional MRI, functional architecture, primate Cells sharing similar receptive-field properties often are arranged according to columns within the cerebral cortex. Columns can be defined as “clusters of cells sharing common receptive field properties” (1). Cells are clustered by orientation preference within the primary visual cortex (V1) (2), by direction tuning within extrastriate area MT (3), and by disparity tuning within extrastriate area V3 (4). As Hubel and Wiesel (5) and Barlow (6) have argued, clustering cells by receptive-field properties like motion or depth would facilitate the computations required to generate linking features used to associate related parts of an image. The particular linking features would dictate the nature of the columns and perhaps the arrangement of the columns within the cortex. Barlow hypothesized that the cortex responsible for color would contain color columns, “thus making it easy to establish links between regions of the same color in the original image” (6). Large (millimeter-sized) color modules have been found downstream of V2 using functional MRI (fMRI) and confirmed using single-unit recording (7). We refer to these modules as “globs,” to distinguish them from other sorts of modules found in other regions of the cortex (e.g., face patches, inferior temporal feature columns). The term “glob” has the additional advantage of drawing an analogy with the cytochrome-oxidase blobs of V1, an earlier stage in the hierarchical elaboration of color (8). The globs are millimeter-sized and scattered throughout the posterior inferior temporal cortex—a swath of brain also referred to as the V4 complex (9). The scale of the globs is similar to the size of the patches of labeled cells found in the posterior inferior temporal cortex (PIT) following anterograde injections of tracer into the subcompartments of V2 (cytochrome-oxidase thin stripes) that are especially concerned with encoding color (10–12). fMRI-guided single-unit recording targeting the globs reveals that the vast majority of glob cells are color-tuned (7). The color tuning of this population strongly suggests its involvement in color perception (13, 14), but it remains unknown if the cells are organized within the globs, as might be expected following Barlow's hypothesis. Some findings have suggested that color-tuned neurons in the V4 complex are clustered by color preference (15), although the notion that the V4 complex is specialized for color remains controversial (16, 17). Here we examine the functional organization of color within the globs by documenting the color preferences of sequentially encountered neurons along microelectrode penetrations targeted to globs. We find that glob cells are clustered by color preference, suggesting that the globs are organized in color columns. Results Color-biased regions in PIT were identified using fMRI as described previously (7, 16). These globs are defined as those regions that show greater fMRI activation to equiluminant color stripes versus black-and-white stripes. Each glob is ≈1–3 mm in diameter, encompassing hundreds of thousands of neurons. We examined the micro-organization of color-tuned neurons within the globs; specifically, we documented the relationship of the color tuning of adjacent neurons within the globs to test the hypothesis that the neurons are arranged in color columns. We made 34 electrode penetrations into globs, and recorded from a total of 315 units (range, 3–23 cells/penetration; mean, 9.7 ± 5.5 cells/penetration). We recorded from a total of 5 globs; each penetration was restricted to a single glob. On many occasions, pairs of neurons were recorded simultaneously at a given position along the electrode track, isolated with a dual-window discriminator, and distinguished based on waveform (see Materials and Methods). Fig. 1 shows the responses of 6 single units located in fMRI-identified globs; each pair of recordings (A–C) was recorded along a single electrode penetration. The left panels in Fig. 1 A–C show poststimulus time histograms of the responses of a bar of optimal size and orientation to each of 135 different colors and black-and-white. The International Commission on Illumination (CIE) x and y coordinates for the colors are given in supporting information (SI) Table S1. All of the cells whose responses are shown in Fig. 1 not only were significantly color-tuned, but also retained this color tuning across changes in luminance, a common feature of glob cells (7). Some 96% (303/312) of the recorded glob cells were color-tuned 
