# Publishing 2.0

URL: https://web.archive.org/web/20110206000145/http://publishing2.com/
Source: web.archive.org
Fetched: 20260603-231103
Cycle: 13
Quality: 1.00
Language: en
On-topic: yes
Body: 15744 chars, ~2540 words

## Design signals
- top_colors: —
- fonts: About The, About This, All About The, Associated Press, Best Practices, Business Insider, But Can, Digital Media, Everything You Need, Fast Flip, First Place, First Time, For You, Home About, Huffington Post, Internet Archive, Jan FEB Mar, Know About, Matter, Middle East, Much Better, NEW YORK, New Media, New York Times, North Africa, Not Just, Now The, Organization Type, OvEr ThE, Partner Since, READ MORE, Read More, Social Media, TIMESTAMPS The Wayback, The Age, The Atlantic, The Brand, The Case, The Challenge, The Content, The Design, The Distribution, The Future, The Game, The Huffington Post, The New, The New York, The Power, The Role, The Social, The Top, The User, The User Experience, The Way, The Wayback Machine, The Web, The World, Wayback Machine, Web Content, Website Design, What You See, Will Not, Worth Paying For, York Times, You Need, You See
- designers_mentioned: Apple, Clay, Huge
- gradients: 0

## Body

Publishing 2.0 834 captures 19 May 2001 - 10 May 2026 Jan FEB Mar 06 2010 2011 2012 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Organization: Internet Archive Global Events Internet Archive Global Events Archive-It Partner Since: Feb, 2006 Organization Type: Other Institutions Organization URL:http://www.archive-it.org Collection: North Africa & the Middle East 2011-2013 This collection documents the events in Northern Africa and the Middle East starting in January 2011. Content includes blogs, social media and news sites about Egypt, Yemen, Libya, Sudan and other countries. Countries separated by site groups (scroll down the page to see all of them). Archived content is in Arabic, English, and French. TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20110206000145/http://publishing2.com/ Publishing 2.0 The (r)Eevolution of Media Home About Archives Twitter January 2nd, 2011 Disrupting the Traditional News Syndication Model by Scott Karp | View Comments Originally published on Nieman Journalism Lab Clay Shirky predicts that in 2011 traditional news syndication will see widespread disruption. I couldn’t agree more. But I don’t think the disruption will happen the way Clay describes it. Clay’s prediction assumes that news consumption will continue its shift from traditional media to the traditional desktop web, where the hyperlink rules and news consumers bounce from hyperlinked page to hyperlinked page and from site to site to site. I think that assumption is wrong. In 2011, we’ll see open acknowledgement of what has long been understood about the traditional desktop web as a platform for consuming news content — it sucks. The desktop web has been a revolutionary platform in terms of access to information, the democratization of publishing, and the socialization of media. But as a medium for consuming news content, from a user interface and user experience perspective, it’s problematic at best and downright awful at worst. News consumption has begun a major shift from the traditional desktop web to apps for touch tablets for a simple reason — the user experience and user interface are so much better, as the recent RJI survey of iPad users reflects. Consumers are choosing tablet apps over the traditional desktop web based on the quality of the user experience and the overall content “package.” News organizations are already shifting their strategies to take advantage of that consumer shift. But few have thought about the role of syndication in news apps. With the immersive, hands-on experience of a tablet news app, the value of syndication changes entirely. Apps that deliver nothing but one news organization’s content will not compare favorably with the content richness of the web, no matter how good the UI is. And apps that bounce users around from site to site with an in-app browser, mimicking the traditional desktop web model, will fail for precisely the reason why users chose the app in the first place. But news apps that can deliver full content, curated from a wide range of sources, within a cohesive, optimized — even breakthrough — UI for news consumption, will win because users will have the best of both worlds. Syndication in news apps will not be about republishing news that everyone else has. It will be about combining curated news with original content in order to create consumer packages that are deeply engaging and in many cases worth paying for. With this shift, news organizations will stop ceding to aggregators the huge value creation of curating and packaging news. Instead, news organizations will start defining their editorial brands as curators as much as they define them as original content creators. Continue reading… Topics: Syndication June 7th, 2010 The Content Graph and the Future of Brands by Scott Karp | View Comments Yesterday, two stories from Aol’s DailyFinance appeared in the Sunday print edition of the Daily Telegram, a newspaper in southern Michigan. These stories appeared on a business page that would otherwise have been produced almost entirely with stories from the Associated Press. The Daily Telegram got permission to publish these Aol stories not through a big corporate content deal, but directly through a peer-to-peer relationship — The Daily Telegram simply subscribed to DailyFinance’s newswire in Publish2’s News Exchange. Now I’m going to tell you why what you see on this page of the Daily Telegram could play a decisive role in the race between Aol, Demand Media, and Yahoo to win the prize of big brand advertising on the web, and why it is also pivotal to the future of news. It’s about a big idea that I introduced at TechCrunch Disrupt: The Content Graph — an analogue to the Social Graph, where high quality content brands create a large scale distribution network that could rival search and social media as a distributor of content. In the Social Graph, you’re defined by your friends. In the Content Graph, a content brand is defined by its distribution relationships with other content brands. The Content Graph is about leveraging the brand equity and consumer trust that is the greatest asset of every traditional media company. It’s about building a content brand’s reputation through distribution. The news industry’s business model broke after it lost control over the distribution of news, with news brands suffering one wave of disintermediation after another. The Content Graph puts news brands back in the game, but not as a return to monolithic monopolies, rather through the power of networks — a network of content brands. (This network includes independent journalists who cultivate their own personal brands.) Ultimately, the Content Graph could be a map for brand advertising on the web, that enables advertisers to tap into a network of high quality content brands, at scale. Sound interesting? Let’s dig deeper. Continue reading… Topics: Content Distribution May 25th, 2010 The New Associated Press for the 21st Century by Scott Karp | View Comments This week, at TechCrunch Disrupt, we’re announcing the launch of Publish2 News Exchange, a platform aimed at disrupting the Associated Press monopoly over content distribution to newspapers. With Publish2 News Exchange, newspapers can replace the AP’s obsolete cooperative with direct content sharing and replace the AP’s commodity content with both free, high-quality content from the Web and content from any paid source. With Publish2 News Exchange, we’ve created what the AP should have become, but can’t because of a classic Innovator’s Dilemma. The New AP is an open, efficient, scalable news distribution platform. We’re enabling newspapers to benefit for the first time from the disruptive power of the Web, and from the efficiency of content production on the Web. Read more about the New AP at the Publish2 Blog now. Topics: Collaboration | Content Distribution | Distribution Channels | Media Economics | Media Platforms | Print Publishing | Publish2 October 26th, 2009 High-End Brand Publishers Need to Sell Scalable Premium Ad Solutions, Not Commodity Ad Space by Scott Karp | View Comments Newspaper online advertising has not benefited greatly from the recent upswing in online ad spending, according to the New York Times and most of the recent newspaper company quarterly results. This is no surprise because most newspaper websites sell SPACE for commodity advertising — display ads and classifieds — and thus are hard pressed to compete with ad networks that specialize in selling commodity ad space by the megaton (or giving it away for free, in the case of Craigslist). Back when newspapers where the only game in town for ad space, they could charge whatever they wanted. Now the web has near infinite ad space, and newspapers find themselves playing the wrong game. They’ve got ad sales staff that specialize in commodity order fulfillment and not premium advertising solutions. So what distinguishes a premium ad solution from commodity ad space? It’s a premium solut
