# &quot;Cubism&quot; at the Met Looks Tragically Antique - artnet News

URL: https://web.archive.org/web/20160927012922/https://news.artnet.com/exhibitions/cubism-at-the-met-modern-art-that-looks-tragically-antique-157075
Source: web.archive.org
Fetched: 20260603-220315
Cycle: 11
Quality: 0.94
Language: en
On-topic: yes
Body: 12370 chars, ~2001 words

## Design signals
- top_colors: —
- fonts: About This, Abstract Art, And Finally, And That, And What, Archive The, Art Deco, Art Studio, ArtNet News, Artnet News, Aug SEP Oct, Autumn Salon, Cubist House, Fine Art, First Things First, First World War, Georges Braque, Good Taste, Henri Matisse, His Own, His Reputation, INDUSTRIAL DESIGN, Industrial Design, Internet Archive, Internet Archive These, Jean Metzinger, Les Demoiselles, Like Picasso, Maison Cubiste, Marcel Duchamp, Matter, Metropolitan Museum, Modern Art, Oil Mill, Pablo Picasso, Rain Embuscado, Raymond Duchamp, Related Articles, Share This, THE WORK, TIMESTAMPS The Wayback, The Castle, The Cubist, The First World, The Foundation, The History, The Idea, The Internet, The Leonard, The Met, The Metropolitan Museum, The Modern, The Movement, The Period, The Post, The Two, The Visual, The War, The Way, The Wayback Machine, The Web, The Well, The Whitney Museum, The Work, The World, Things First, Wayback Machine, What They, Whitney Museum, Wikipedia Articles, Wikipedia Near Real, Wikipedia Pages, World War
- designers_mentioned: Spin, Together
- gradients: 0

## Body

"Cubism" at the Met Looks Tragically Antique - artnet News 33 captures 27 Sep 2016 - 23 Feb 2026 Aug SEP Oct 27 2015 2016 2017 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Organization: Internet Archive These crawls are part of an effort to archive pages as they are created and archive the pages that they refer to. That way, as the pages that are referenced are changed or taken from the web, a link to the version that was live when the page was written will be preserved. Then the Internet Archive hopes that references to these archived pages will be put in place of a link that would be otherwise be broken, or a companion link to allow people to see what was originally intended by a page's authors. The goal is to fix all broken links on the web. Crawls of supported "No More 404" sites. Collection: Wikipedia Near Real Time (from IRC) This is a collection of web page captures from links added to, or changed on, Wikipedia pages. The idea is to bring a reliability to Wikipedia outlinks so that if the pages referenced by Wikipedia articles are changed, or go away, a reader can permanently find what was originally referred to. This is part of the Internet Archive's attempt to rid the web of broken links. TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20160927012922/https://news.artnet.com/exhibitions/cubism-at-the-met-modern-art-that-looks-tragically-antique-157075 Exhibitions “Cubism” at the Met: Modern Art That Looks Tragically Antique How did the quintessentially radical art movement come to look so safe? Ben Davis, November 6, 2014 12 View Slideshow 0/0 "Cubism" at the Met: Modern Art That Looks Tragically Antique 0/0 Read Caption Close Georges Braque, The Castle of La Roche-Guyon (1909). Photo: © 2014 Artists Rights Society (ARS), New York. Read Caption Close Georges Braque, Fruit Dish and Glass (1912) Photo: © 2014 Artists Rights Society (ARS), New York. Read Caption Close Georges Braque, Violin and Sheet Music: "Petit Oiseau" (1913). Photo: © 2014 Artists Rights Society (ARS), New York. Read Caption Close Georges Braque, Still Life with Clarinet (Bottle and Clarinet) (1911). Photo: © 2014 Artists Rights Society (ARS), New York. Read Caption Close Pablo Picasso, Pedestal Table, Glasses, Cups, Mandolin (1911). Photo: © 2014 Estate of Pablo Picasso / Artists Rights Society (ARS), New York. Read Caption Close Pablo Picasso, Composition with Violin (1912). Photo: © 2014 Estate of Pablo Picasso / Artists Rights Society (ARS), New York. Read Caption Close Pablo Picasso, Nude with Raised Arm and Drapery (Study for "Les demoiselles d'Avignon") (1907). Photo: © 2014 Estate of Pablo Picasso / Artists Rights Society (ARS), New York. Read Caption Close Juan Gris, Still Life (The Tobacco Pouch) (1918). Photo: Promised Gift from the Leonard A. Lauder Cubist Collection. Read Caption Close Juan Gris, Still Life with Checked Tablecloth (1915). Photo: The Metropolitan Museum of Art, Leonard A. Lauder Cubist Collection, Purchase, Leonard A. Lauder Gift, 2014. Read Caption Close Fernand Léger, The Tugboat (1918). Photo: © 2014 Artists Rights Society (ARS), New York Read Caption Close Fernand Léger, Composition (The Typographer) (1918–19). Photo: © 2014 Artists Rights Society (ARS), New York. Read Caption Close Fernand Léger, Sketch for "The Acrobats in the Circus" (1918). Photo: © 2014 Artists Rights Society (ARS), New York. First things first: The Metropolitan Museum’s current “Cubism” show is very good. If you are an art lover, go see it. Now that this is out of the way, we can move on and ask if there is actually anything left to say about Cubism. The show, sweeping through six packed, mausoleal galleries, presents some of the best examples of Cubist art that money can buy—and I mean that phrase very literally, since it is in essence a curated inventory of cosmetics mogul Leonard A. Lauder’s obsessive Cubist collection, a trove he pledged to the Met last year as a promised gift. (As the heir of Estée Lauder, Leonard is, incidentally, a perfect representative of Thomas Piketty’s theory that we are returning to “patrimonial capitalism.”) In the show’s catalogue, Jack Flam reminds us that the term “cubism” actually came into currency in 1910 to describe a group that specifically did not include the movement’s pioneers, Pablo Picasso and Georges Braque. It was used then to refer to artists like Jean Metzinger and Henri Le Falconnier, as well as Marcel Duchamp and his brother, the sculptor Raymond Duchamp-Villon, the so-called “Salon Cubists.” This context goes missing from the Met’s “Cubism” blockbuster. Instead, Lauder’s collection focuses on the biggest names, the “Four Horsemen” of the Cubist apocalypse. Pablo Picasso, The Oil Mill (1909). Photo: © 2014 Estate of Pablo Picasso / Artists Rights Society (ARS), New York Thus, in the opening galleries, you have a cascade of classic early-period Cubism by Picasso and Braque. In smallish landscapes like Picasso’s The Oil Mill (1909) and Braque’s The Castle of La Roche-Guyon (1909), they come across very much as what they were, lusty young art nerds competing to out-Cézanne one another. Ultimately, they out-Cézanned Cézanne, carrying the Post-Impressionist master’s laborious analysis of form to the point where form broke apart all-together. This discovery inspired an exchange of exploded still-lifes, the kind of intimate yet adventurous paintings that we think of as quintessentially Cubist. Often, these center on references to table games, like dice or chess, as well as musical instruments, suggesting both the hothouse art studio atmosphere that was the context of their work, and what the two painters were doing: playing around, jamming together. Juan Gris, Houses in Paris, Place Ravignan (1911). Photo: Promised Gift from the Leonard A. Lauder Cubist Collection. Next comes Juan Gris, Picasso’s fellow Spanish expat and a former political cartoonist, who gets his own gallery at the Met. In works like Houses in Paris, Place Ravignon (1911)—displayed both as a study and as the final version to show how meticulous the placement of the fragmented forms is—Gris’s melodious spin on Picasso/Braque’s wild style looks terrific, though it does not dispel his reputation as Friends to their Seinfeld, the better-looking rip-off, but missing some of the spiky, subversive edge. The show concludes with a too-abbreviated presentation of the other big name, Fernand Léger, whose signature move was to transform everyone and everything he saw into robot-like cylindrical parts. His 1913 Drawing for “The Staircase” and Still Life, from the same year, look startlingly similar. Both are on tan paper, both a collection of shimmery cylinders standing in for typical artistic subject matter. He should really be called a “tubist” instead of a “cubist.” Fernand Léger, Drawing for “The Staircase” (1913). Photo: © 2014 Artists Rights Society (ARS), New York. “I consider the modern school of painting to be the most daring thing that has ever existed,” the poet-critic Guillaume Apollinaire, who had introduced Braque to Picasso in 1907, wrote with characteristic poet-critic hyperbole in The Cubist Painters. “It has raised the question of beauty itself.” To anyone who’s taken Modern Art 101, the Met’s “Cubism” show will certainly elicit a shiver of pleasurable recognition. But it takes real effort—and is maybe even impossible now—to see the work as Apollinaire did. How do we see it? For one thing, when we look at it, we see a billion dollars. That is the amount that the Lauder collection is valued at, the hook for headline-writers everywhere touting his donation. Of course, the great Cubist paintings were always destined for the halls of the well-to-do—Picasso, Braque, Gris, and finally Léger were all snapped up into exclusive contracts with dealer Daniel-Henry Kahnweiler. But by now, more than a century on, this art is so synonymous with money that it looks not like thrilling innovation but like a safe investment; instead of raising “the question 
