# 2013. Anti-Media - Ephemera on Speculative Arts

URL: http://idioideo.pleintekst.nl/Book2013Anti-Media.html
Source: idioideo.pleintekst.nl
Fetched: 20260603-235543
Cycle: 14
Quality: 1.00
Language: en
On-topic: yes
Body: 127133 chars, ~20745 words

## Design signals
- top_colors: #154085(1), #040(1)
- fonts: ARISING OUT, About Face, About The, About This, Albert Museum, All Time, Alle Menschen, American Arts, American Literature, And Finally, And How, And That, Are Only, Art School, Art Students, Art Works, Art World, Artificial Intelligence, Better Way, Book Review, Brenda Laurel, But Can, But She, But What, Carnegie Mellon, Cereal, Classification Schemes, Come From, Command Line, Commons Attribution, Computer Games, Computer Interface Design, Conceptual Artists, Contemporary Art, Contrast The, Corporate Identity, Court Orders, Creative Commons, Creative Industries, Creative Writing, Cultural Heritage, Defense Advanced Research, Design Tools, Different Type, Digital Cameras, Digital Media, Dmytri Kleiner, Even When, FULL TEXT, Fall Back, First Century, First Time, Florian Cramer, For Kids, Free Download, Free Software, From June, From This, Full Text, GRAPHIC DESIGN, GRAPHIC Design, Game Rules, Generated Content, Gertrude Stein, Good Business, Good For, Graphical User Interface, Great Theater, Her Work, High School, His Own, His Work, How Does, Huffington Post, Human Interaction, Information Technology, Interaction Design, Interface Design, Internet Archive, Its Money, Itself Become, John Barth, John Cage, Karl Popper, Know About, Lady Gaga, Later Years, Learn The, Less Than, Look For, Looking For, MATERIAL AND, MIT Press, Make Money, Marcel Duchamp, Mass Media, Matter, May Not, Media Management, Media Studies, Mellon University, Microsoft Office, Middle Ages, Monte Young, More Efficient, More Likely, Music Theory, NEW YORK, Nam June Paik, National Association, National Museum, New Clothes, New Directions, New Music, New York School, New York Times, Next Generation, Nineteenth Century, North American, One Laptop, Open Source, Operating System, OvEr ThE, PRESS RELEASE, Paul McCartney, Photo Sharing, Play With, Pop Culture, Projects Agency, Public Library, Read The, Research Centre, Robert Coover, Robert Grenier, Roman Alphabet, See Also, Semantic Web, Share Alike, Short Story, Social Networks, Software Design, Star Trek, Status Quo, Stiletto Studios, Strategies That Can, THE ACTION, THE FORM, THE INTERNET AND, THE REVIVAL, THE USE, THE WORK, TIm Berners, Technical Writing, Thank You, The Act, The Age, The Alphabet, The Answer, The Architecture, The Archive, The Art, The Artist, The Author, The Avant, The BBC, The BODY, The Bauhaus, The Book, The Books, The Business, The Case, The Challenge, The Church, The Concept, The Content, The Creative Community, The Definition, The Distribution, The Element, The Elements, The Emperor, The End, The English, The Essence, The Finger, The Form, The French, The German, The Graphic Design, The Greek, The Group, The Guardian, The HTML, The History, The Huffington Post, The Human, The Idea, The Internet, The Journal, The Language, The Lessons, The Life, The Limitations, The Line, The Lives, The Long, The MIT Press, The MTV, The Machine, The Making, The Man, The Meaning, The Mid, The Museum, The Music, The Nature, The Nazis, The New, The New York, The Next Generation, The Nineteenth Century, The Order, The Past, The Peak, The People, The Prevention, The Public Domain, The Revival, The Room, The Rules, The STORY, The San Francisco, The Sea, The Search, The Semantic Web, The Simple, The Sound, The State, The Story, The Streets, The Studio, The Swedish, The Terms, The Text, The Time, The Touch, The Trend, The Two, The Universe, The Use, The User, The Visual, The Visual Arts, The Wall, The Water, The Way, The Web, The Wikipedia, The Work, The World, The World Wide, The Yes Men, They Can, Thinking About, This Article, This Book, This Society, Tim Berners, Times Book Review, Times Square, Turned Into, Turns Out, Two Girls, User Interfaces, VERY DANGEROUS, Video Music Awards, Visual Arts, Visual Display, Web Sites, West Germany, What Does, What Made, What They, Wide Web, World Wide Web, World With, YOUR TICKET, YOUR USE, Years Later, Yoko Ono, York Times, You Can, You Can Use, You Don, You Want, Young People, Your Contributions, Your Use
- designers_mentioned: Apple, Bauhaus, Favor, Huge, Linear, Notion, Portion, Together
- gradients: 0

## Body

2013. Anti-Media - Ephemera on Speculative Arts 2013. Anti-Media - Ephemera on Speculative Arts An Amediaite's Mediated Anti-Media (review of Florian Cramer's Anti-Media: Ephemera on Speculative Arts) by tENTATIVELY, a cONVENIENCE - June 6-11, 2014 full review: https://www.goodreads.com/story/show/367743-an-amediaite-s-mediated-anti-media?chapter=1 truncated review: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17174753-anti-media Ok, I've been friends w/ the author, Florian Cramer, since I rc'vd a friendly letter from him dated August 27, 1990. He was probably living in Berlin, Germany, at the time. We 1st met in person when he came to visit me in BalTimOre in January of 1993. On January 16th, 1993, we made our 1st collaboration together: a movie entitled "What's Your Fucking Problem You Bloody Gash" (you can witness that here: http://youtu.be/eXwhuBr3iD8 ). This pretended to address the issue of why there are so few neoist women. Since then, I've spent time w/ him in Berlin in 1994, 1997, & 2004; in Hungary in 1997; & he's visited me in Pittsburgh in 2003 & 2012. In the fall of 1994, he was probably the 1st person to publish writings of mine online. In September, 1996, he was also responsible for having many or all of these same writings published on the "of(f) the w.w.web" CD-ROM. He currently hosts many of my websites: http://idioideo.pleintekst.nl/ . I consider Florian to be one of the world's leading intellectuals. I consider him to be a great scholar. I consider him to be a prominent neoist. I consider him to be one of my best friends. He has a meticulously analytical mind. He's not easily taken in by hype. I think of him as someone who's highly interested in making infrastructures evident, perhaps as a form on 'enlightenment'. He strikes me as always searching for a hidden essence. "What is a hacker?" [..]: "1. A person who enjoys exploring the details of programmable systems and how to stretch their capabilities, as opposed to most users who prefer to learn only the minimum necessary." - from "the famous self-written Internet dictionary of computer hackers" (p 220) In Anti-Media, in the article entitled "In Some Respects Reversed: Georg Philipp Harsdörffer's Frauenzimmer Gesprächspiele" (2004) Florian writes: "Contemporary digital artists such as jodi work" [..] "making the formal systems underlying computer games legible." (p 197) "Seeming to go against the understanding of Spiel (game) as an artificial thing, Harsdörffer etymologizes the word as an onomatopoeic term for flowing water. In doing so, both the signified of the word 'game' as well as the word itself become a sort of game. Or, to use the terminology of Schottelius' linguistic theory, which was published at the same time as Harsdörffer's Gesprächspiele, the word becomes a 'stem word' in which the essence of the thing that it expresses is inscribed." (p 197) In footnote 13 of the section entitled "Poetic Art of Wisdom: Quirinus Kuhlmann's '41st Kiss of Love'" the reader learns that "Together with Schottelius, Harsdörffer pursued his poetic study of language as part of the Fructiferous Society. Kuhlmann dedicated his '41st Kiss of Love' to a patron who is likewise a member of this literary society." (p 254) The Fructiferous Society, Fruchtbringende Gesellschaft in the original German, "was a German literary society founded in 1617 in Weimar by German scholars and nobility. Its aim was to standardize vernacular German and promote it as both a scholarly and literary language, after the pattern of the Accademia della Crusca in Florence and similar groups already thriving in Italy, followed in later years also in France (1635) and Britain." [..] "It disbanded in 1668." ( http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_members_of_the_Fruitbearing_Society ) Florian revived this society in 1997 or thereabouts & invited me to be one of its only members (despite my essentially not speaking German). I went on to make a movie entitled "Story of a Fructiferous Society". Interested readers can read my article about that movie in OTHERZINE issue 17 (Fall, 2009) here: http://www.othercinema.com/otherzine/archives/index.php?issueid=22&article_id=96 . "A die in the middle of ornamental vines that outline the perimeter of an overturned triangle; above this, the line, 'Auff manche Art verkehrt' (In some respects reversed). This is how the 'Haubtregister' ('index') of the eighth volume of Georg Philipp Harsdörffer's Frauenzimmer Gesprächspielen ends." [..] "Does the emblem represent the Gesprächspiele itself, which appeared in eight volumes between 1641 and 1649, or does it represent the author, Harsdörffer, who as a member of the Fruitbearing Society was given the name of 'The Player'?" - p 193 Florian is "The Forked One" & I'm "The Ballooning One" - both of our names refer to specific plants. Given my whole-minded endorsement of the fruits of Cramer's labor, I'm nonetheless uncertain about this bk's title: does it really address & define "anti-media"? Are the writings really "ephemera"? Is the subject really "speculative arts"? I reckon I have to write this review in order to answer these questions. Cramer's introductory paragraph holds great promise: "While this book was in the making, an article in the online arts journal Triple Canopy almost destroyed it. "Speculative" turns out to be one of the most fashionable buzzwords in what authors Alix Rule and David Levine call "International Art English' ('IAE').' Rule and Levine analyze the lingo of 'the art world press release', particularly on the e-flux mailing list, and reconstruct how in the 1970s, French structuralist and German Frankfurt school jargon was imported into the canonical American arts journal October. From there, it mutated into today's globalized, pseudo-scholarly contemporary art English. Rule and Levine predict the 'implosion' of this 'decadent period of IAE' along with art biennials and the globalized 'curatorial' art discourse." - p 7 In my review notes I referred to this as an "hilarious beginning!" Now, after many mnths have elapsed since I started reading the bk, I'm not totally sure why I found it so "hilarious" - perhaps simply b/c Florian seems to be effacing himself from the get-go, perhaps b/c he's immediately acknowledging the pitfalls of language that has the appearance of intellectual substance but that may really be more of a lingo-smokescreen behind wch emptiness hides. University art students are taught to embellish their work w/ the appearance of heavy theory thru the use of jargon known only to elites - but does the mere use of the jargon inevitably signify a parallel degree of specialization in the work itself? Or might the jargon just be the Emperor's New Clothes intended to make anyone who points out the substantial nudity seem like an intellectual child? Now, I have my very sizable collection of magazines in my personal library organized into 2 areas: read (& that means read as completely as whatever my knowledge of the languages involved enables me) & not-read (meaning not read at all or only partially read). I find that I only have 2 issues of October, #3 (Spring 1977) & #17 (Summer 1981), & that I haven't read either of them (or, perhaps, only an article here & there). Somehow, October (1976-the present) has never appealed to me in the way that, say, Art-Language: The Journal of Conceptual Art (1969-1978), Avalanche (1970-1976), General Idea's FILE (1972-1989), The Fox (1975-1976), High Performance (1978-1997), lightworks (1975-2000), semiotext(e) (1974-1984?-the present?), View (1978-1993), & VILE (1974-1983) did. semiotext(e), at least, started introducing French philosophy to the US slightly before October came around but their style was so flagrantly radical queer that I was impressed by the sheer audacity of it. I've always imagined that their "Man/Boy Love" issue from Summer, 1980, & their "Polysexuality" issue from 1981 probably put a substantial damper on their academic distribution - no more cash-cow university books
