# Subtraction&#58; Oh Yeeaahh!

URL: https://web.archive.org/web/20070810100518/http://www.subtraction.com/archives/2007/0318_oh_yeeaahh.php
Source: web.archive.org
Fetched: 20260603-113715
Cycle: 6
Quality: 1.00
Language: en
On-topic: yes
Body: 24251 chars, ~4306 words

## Design signals
- top_colors: —
- fonts: About This, Alexa Crawls Starting, Alexa Internet, And That, Are You, Best Practices, But There, Cascading Style Sheets, Crawl Data, Creative Commons, Ever Seen, Grid Systems, Home Page Design, Information Design, Internet Archive, Khoi Vinh, Make Much Sense, May Not, New York New, New York Times, Pop Culture, Site Search, THE DOWNLOAD, THE USE, TIMESTAMPS The Wayback, Thank You, The Box Model, The Design, The Elements, The End, The French, The Grid, The Grid System, The London, The Typographic Grid, The Use, The Wayback Machine, The World, Wayback Machine, York Times, You Could, You Don, You Need, Your Work
- designers_mentioned: Huge, Portion, Together
- gradients: 0

## Body

Subtraction: Oh Yeeaahh! 156 captures 22 Mar 2007 - 14 Sep 2025 Jul AUG Sep 10 2006 2007 2008 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Organization: Alexa Crawls Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive. Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period. Collection: 42_crawl this data is currently not publicly accessible. TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20070810100518/http://www.subtraction.com:80/archives/2007/0318_oh_yeeaahh.php#remarks Subtraction Version 7.0 Khoi Vinh’s Web Site Search Home Archives Elsewhere About Previous Next Sun 18 Mar 2007 Oh Yeeaahh! Posted 11:31 PM Author Khoi Vinh Categories Design, Subtraction, Web Design Body It’s been about a year now since I first started thinking about creating some kind of definitive documentation about my approach to designing for the Web with the typographic grid as my primary layout tool. I spent a few weeks last summer putting a lot of those thoughts down on paper, but nothing much became of them. Then, a few months ago, in preparation for a workshop at Carson Systems’ Future of Web Apps conference, I started thinking about how to visually represent the problem-solving process that I go through when designing new interfaces with grid layouts. At first, I started thinking about disassembling and then reassembling one of the designs in my portfolio. But that seemed as if it wouldn’t be quite satisfactory, as I wanted the ability to talk openly about all the different factors that go into a design solution, without worrying about offending colleagues or clients. What If… So I hit upon the idea of a hypothetical redesign of an existing Web property. That approach would allow me to tackle a set of real world design problems that would be familiar to lots of users, without having to tread too lightly on proprietary information or relationships. When I started casting about for an ideal candidate, there was an obvious winner in a high-profile portal Web site that’s familiar to millions of Web surfers — rhymes with “ha-hoo.” That site has an ideal mix of many different kinds of information design problems: robust navigation, multiple content types, consumer branding, a mix of editorial and marketing contents. You couldn’t really ask for a more well-rounded challenge. In order to avoid provoking the company’s legal team, however, I decided to make an arbitrary name change to the somewhat ridiculous but still similar fictional brand Yeeaahh!. With that settled, I spent a few evenings poring over the typical content available on the home page as of January of this year, and then reconstituting almost all of it into a new, grid-based layout. (I was also helped enormously in the iconography department when I was lucky enough to get permission to use the beautiful Oslo and Oslo Buzz icon sets from the very generous Josh Williams at IconBuffet.) To show the flexibility of the grid that I developed for the home page, I also tackled the front page of the company’s personals property, and had plans to tackle even more pages from its family of Web products, but time got the better of me and I had to stop there. You can see the home page and the personals page at Yeeaahh.subtraction.com. Above: Grids in the affirmative. The Yeeaahh! home page design, also available at full-size. Caveat Designer I should note that the final designs, if ever launched, would be poorer click-through performers in various ways, I’m sure, and that the few areas where I took creative license with the original layout are bound to introduce new usability problems, as well. None of that was the point, though. The idea wasn’t so much to improve upon the originals, as it was to use the redesigns as a vehicle for illustrating the various methods and principles that I use in grid layouts. As well, I’ll add that a grid-based layout is not meant to be a solution that precludes the entirety of a design process. This approach is not a replacement for educated guesswork, best practices research, instinctual creativity and testing, testing and more testing. Keep in mind, while reviewing these designs, that they focus only on one part of that larger design process, and that I readily admit that they wouldn’t fly in the real world without some more consideration and validation than I invested into them. Opening the Kimono I originally presented these materials in a three-hour workshop in London in late February for the aforementioned Future of Web Apps conference. Afterwards, I abridged the deck and incorporated feedback from fellow grid enthusiast Mark Boulton as he joined me to present it again in a highly compressed twenty-two minutes at last week’s South by Southwest Interactive festival. Above: Think positive, there’s someone out there for you. Hopefully. The Yeeaahh! Personals home page design, also available at full-size. Based on anecdotal feedback, both sessions went over fairly well, I think, and I was urged by several attendees of both sessions to make slides available online. That’s incredibly flattering of course, but for reasons I can’t elegantly articulate, I’ve never felt very comfortable about making the slides from my talks available for download. However, I’m trying to come around on that point. After some deliberation, I made the London presentation available to those who attended my workshop — but at a secure URL. I figured they’d gone through the trouble and expense to sign up for my workshop, and I should give them something lasting to help them get the most mileage from that session — but that I shouldn’t too readily offer those materials to everyone else, as well. South by Southwest though is a different story. That presentation was composed of roughly the same material, but there were so many more attendees who came to see Mark and myself talk, that it doesn’t seem worthwhile to try and secure the download location. So I’m making it available here. Have at it, anyone who wants it — you can download the slide deck at this URL, below. Download “Grids Are Good” Presentation (8MB PDF Document) One final note: if you use these techniques to create a grid-based layout of your own, well, please drop me a note with a link where I can see your work. I’d get a kick out of seeing these ideas take hold in the world outside my office. + Remarks 71 total remarks on this post. Add your own remarks below. Mon 19 Mar 2007 at 01:53 AM Jeff Croft Great stuff, Khoi. This was definitely my favorite presentation at SXSW -- great of you to put it online where those we weren't there can see it. I have to ask: any chance we could see the unabridged, FOWA version of the deck? :) Mon 19 Mar 2007 at 01:59 AM Lee Those designs are Khoi Vinh all over, I love your style :) Looking forward to checking out the slides. Just incase you don't mention any books in the slides, can you recommend any good ones with regard to grids in design? Also, has anyone made any progress on scalable grids / designing using grids in conjunction with ems? Mon 19 Mar 2007 at 02:20 AM Jeff Croft A few of my favorite grid books: Grid Systems, Elam Making and Breaking the Grid, Samara Layout, Ambrose/Harris Mon 19 Mar 2007 at 02:29 AM Lee Fantastic, Thanks Jeff! Love your work too :) Mon 19 Mar 2007 at 05:42 AM jarek Hello there, I am an usual lurker here, but I had to come out to thank you for putting the slides online. They are great inspiration source for a grid enthusiast like me :-) Thanks a million and keep up the good work! j Mon 19 Mar 2007 at 06:32 AM Brad Brooks Thanks for these Khoi. Now, any chance of a podcast of the talk itself? ;) Mon 19 Mar 2007 at 06:42 AM Rick Curran Thanks Khoi, looking forward to having a good look at that PDF! Mon 19 Mar 2007 at 06:57 AM Mimo Thanks for sharing. Great One. Mon 19 Mar 2007 at 10:02 AM Dennis Coughlin Excellent post - and thanks for sharing your PDF presentation. Was not familiar with the Grid Approach, so ex
