# What Puts the Design in Interaction Design :: UXmatters

URL: http://www.uxmatters.com/mt/archives/2007/07/what-puts-the-design-in-interaction-design.php
Source: www.uxmatters.com
Fetched: 20260603-114740
Cycle: 6
Quality: 1.00
Language: en
On-topic: yes
Body: 24994 chars, ~3822 words

## Design signals
- top_colors: —
- fonts: And Self, Architectural Press, Art Education, Bill Buxton, Centered Design, Computer Interaction, Crampton Smith, Design For, Design Thinking, Design With, Designing Interactions, Difference Between, Donald Norman, Frank Lloyd Wright, Gillian Crampton Smith, Ginkgo Bioworks, Good Design, Harvard University Press, Information Design, Interaction Design, Interface Design, Kevin Silver, MIT Press, Matter, Morgan Kaufmann, New Design, New Riders, Paul Rand, Princeton Architectural, Problem Solving, Retrieved July, Share This, THE FORM, THE USE, The Author, The Cost, The Craftsman, The Design, The Difference Between, The End, The Form, The Interaction Design, The Language, The MIT Press, The Magic, The Role, The Things, The Use, The World, University Press, What Puts
- designers_mentioned: Manual, Paul Rand, Together
- gradients: 0

## Body

What Puts the Design in Interaction Design :: UXmatters Top Design What Puts the Design in Interaction Design By Kevin Silver July 10, 2007 1 Comment “Most design jargon deals with how to design rather than what to design and why.”—John Arnott “I prefer design by experts—people who know what they are doing.”—Donald Norman Interaction design is a blended endeavor of process, methodology, and attitude. Discussions of process and methodology are pervasive in the interaction design milieu and often revolve around a perceived tension between process and methodology and the role of design within this discipline. To be clear, process is the overarching design framework—for example, an iterative, or spiral, process or a sequential, or waterfall, process. Conversely, a methodology is a prescribed design approach such as user-centered design or genius design. Champion Advertisement Continue Reading… Along with all this talk about process and methodology, interaction designers spend much time distinguishing and labeling their various design practices: Is it interface design or information design? This is not surprising, because interaction design lies at the junction of several design disciplines. The resulting crossover between various specialties and issues is often muddled, understandably. There is no doubt that interaction design, as a design discipline, differs from applied human-computer interaction and cognitive psychology. These distinctions are omnipresent in the current literature. “Interaction design’s strongest ties are to the discipline of design—not to, say human-computer interaction or cognitive psychology, although it does draw heavily on those fields. Interaction designers are designers, for good or ill.”—Dan Saffer Saffer makes the point that interaction designers are designers not only because of process and methodology, but also because of attitude. Traces of this theme recently appeared in a thread on the IAI mailing list, “Is there a design school culture?” in which the thread instigator contemplated the difference between designers who went to art/design school and those who did not. He eloquently stated that, at times, he feels like a muggle, an outsider, who is not quite immersed in the same culture of design compared to those who had a formal design/art education. Though the author was not specifically talking about interaction design, there is a strong parallel to recent discussions on the IxDA discussion list in the “Old Guard versus New Guard” thread, which also contemplated the issue of formal design training. Harry Potter Vernacular muggle—Humans who do not have magical abilities and are not aware of the magical community. mudblood—Derogatory term for a wizard or witch whose parents are muggles. squib—A person who is part of the magical community, but was born without magical abilities. At times in my career, I have certainly felt like a muggle, and certain creative types might even have called me a mudblood. But my experience has been more akin to being a squib—born into the world of design, but not quite a designer. Looking back, interaction design was for me a result of a process, not a pursuit of design. I considered interaction design a small piece of the puzzle that I relegated to an artifact, a deliverable—here’s the interaction design. In my mind, design dealt with the pursuit of aesthetics, but I always thought there had to be more. My view and practice of interaction design has certainly matured since then, but this underlying question still remains: What’s the magic and why should I use it? In other words, what puts the design in interaction design? To answer this question, we need to think about the purpose of design. Design is a loaded term that has a pliable meaning. In a moment of clarity, Christopher Alexander defined the purpose of design: “The ultimate object of design is form.” This definition truly resonates with me, because it equates design with creation—specifically, the creation of something tangible, a form that traditionally takes shape as either a 2-D visual representation or a 3-D physical object or space. Interaction design sits at the convergence of these dimensions, with the addition of time (4-D) and behavior (5-D). The form of interaction design is difficult to define; it is implicit though seemingly intangible—time and behavior do not necessarily have a physical shape. To fully understand the role of design in interaction design, we must first describe its form. Then, we must identify the need for design. Form does not always result from a new design process. Alexander demonstrates that it can build upon existing patterns that fit within the targeted context. We see this everyday online. The Web is mostly built upon ubiquitous patterns of interaction. However, to address new problems through innovation or the modification of existing patterns, you must design. A pattern is a solution for a particular context. Furthermore, our pursuit through design is to create a good fit between form and context. The variability of context in the digital realm—the playground of interaction design—makes this pursuit more difficult. Again, to fully understand the role of design in interaction design, we must understand why we need to design. Pondering Form “Form follows function—that has been misunderstood. Form and function should be one joined in a spiritual union.”—Frank Lloyd Wright “The gestalt of a digital artifact emerges in the interaction with the user over time.”—Jonas Lowgren and Erik Stolterman Designed behavior is not invisible. Sometimes it is obfuscated; at other times, it is apparent or even obvious. Most importantly, designed behavior dictates the flow between action and reaction, which is the basis of an interaction. A user takes an action through an affordance, which in turn causes a reaction in the presentation layer. An interaction doesn’t have to be digital. For example, when I listen to a record, I must operate the turntable through the motion of lifting up the tone arm and carefully placing it on the vinyl. As soon as the needle touches the vinyl, I receive feedback in the form of sound—hopefully, it’s not too much of a crunch. Then, once a side of the record had played through, my old turntable would automatically lift the tone arm and shut down. In comparison, my new turntable, which is completely manual, infinitely continues rotating at the end of a side until I return the tone arm to its stand and press the off switch. A user’s initial action can cause multiple reactions that occur over time. There might be a pause in behavior until a state changes, in the same way that a conversation has pauses. Conversations unfold over time, but are not continuous. A conversation has starting and stopping points. Conversation reflects interaction—the seemingly intangible component of behavior. Conversation enables communication between action and presentation. It is a conduit between action, or operation, and reaction, or presentation. These layers of an interaction converge with the multiple dimensions of an interaction design language. Together they constitute an inseparable union: the form of an interaction. As shown in Figure 1, the five dimensions of an interaction design language converge with operation, conversation, and presentation to create form. Figure 1—Elements of the form of an interaction In the introduction to Designing Interactions, Gillian Crampton Smith suggests that there are four dimensions to an interaction design language. I have added a fifth. The five dimension of the language of interaction design are: 1-D—words—which are interactions 2-D—visual representations—which include typography, diagrams, icons, and other graphics with which users interact 3-D—physical objects or space—with which or within which users interact 4-D—time—within which users interact—for example, content that changes over time such as sound, video, or animation 5-D—behavior—including action, or operatio
