# European Design - 2007 Erik Spiekermann

URL: https://web.archive.org/web/20120626143958/http://www.europeandesign.org/ed-awards/hall-of-fame/erik-spiekermann/
Source: web.archive.org
Fetched: 20260603-122012
Cycle: 7
Quality: 1.00
Language: en
On-topic: yes
Body: 7886 chars, ~1332 words

## Design signals
- top_colors: —
- fonts: About This, Adobe Press, Alexa Crawls Starting, Alexa Internet, Around The World, Berlin Transit, Berliner Grotesk, Book Covers, Crawl Data, Design Council, Deutsche Bahn, Erik Spiekermann, German Design Prize, German Railways, Gerrit Noordzij Prize, Graphic Designer, Heidelberg Printing, Helvetica, Honorary Doctorship, Information Design, International Institute, International Society, Internet Archive, Matter, May JUN Jul, Past President, Royal Academy, Second Edition, Stop Stealing Sheep, TIMESTAMPS The Wayback, The Economist, The German, The Hague, The Impact, The Internet, The Process, The Wayback Machine, The World, United Designers Network, Very Good, Wayback Machine, What Does, Will Not, World Cup, Your Work
- designers_mentioned: Erik Spiekermann, Stefan Sagmeister
- gradients: 0

## Body

European Design - 2007 Erik Spiekermann 32 captures 13 Feb 2011 - 04 Sep 2025 May JUN Jul 26 2011 2012 2013 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Organization: Alexa Crawls Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive. Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period. Collection: Alexa Crawls Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive. Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period. TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20120626143958/http://www.europeandesign.org:80/ed-awards/hall-of-fame/erik-spiekermann/ Login | Register Home Previous 11.01.2010 Categories: Hall of Fame 2007 Erik Spiekermann The European Design Hall of Fame winner 2007 Prof. Dr. h.c. Erik Spiekermann (*1947) studied History of Art and English in Berlin. He is information architect, type designer (ff Meta, itc Officina, ff Info, ff Unit, LoType, Berliner Grotesk et al) and author of books and articles on type and typography. He was founder (1979) of MetaDesign, Germany’s largest design firm with offices in Berlin, London and San Francisco. Projects included corporate design programmes for Audi, Skoda, Volkswagen, Lexus, Heidelberg Printing, Berlin Transit, Duesseldorf Airport and many others. In 1988 he started FontShop, a company for production and distribution of electronic fonts. He holds an honorary professorship at the Academy of Arts in Bremen, is board member of ATypI and the German Design Council and Past President of the istd International Society of Typographic Designers as well as the iiid International Institute of Information Design. In 2003 he was awarded the Gerrit Noordzij Prize for Typography from the Royal Academy in The Hague, Netherlands. In 2006 received an honorary doctorship from Pasadena Art Center. In 2001 he redesigned The Economist magazine in London. His book for Adobe Press,“Stop Stealing Sheep” has recently appeared in a second edition and both a German and a Russian version. His corporate font family for Nokia was released in 2002. The exclusive family of typefaces for Deutsche Bahn (the German railway system), designed with Christan Schwartz, was awarded the Federal German Design Prize 2007. He left MetaDesign in 2001 and now runs SpiekermannPartners with offices in Berlin, London and San Francisco. Clients include Bosch, Deutsche Bahn, Pioneer Investment, Messe Frankfurt, Nokia, Birkhäuser Verlag Basel and many others. Interview by Frederico Duarte Q: You have just received the 2007 European Designer Hall of Fame Award. This is not your first award, but the fact you have been nominated by your peers from all over the continent must have a special meaning. What does it mean, to you, to have received this accolade? A: Getting the vote from the readers of professional design magazines means a lot. It shows me that design is, indeed, an international language. And it proves that there is a design community which knows who has been doing what for quite a few years. Q: Stefan Sagmeister once said a famous graphic designer is like a famous electrician. Merit and fame are still only recognised inside their milieu. Rarely the general public, or even mainstream media, pay real attention to the discipline and to its practitioners. Your open criticism of the UEFA 2006 World Cup put you briefly in the German "public eye", but despite your considerable work in your country and beyond, you are still to become "a household name". Do you think there is a place for public and media recognition for graphic design? Will we witness the rise of the "star graphic designer", as we have seen the "star architect"? A: Public recognition is important because it makes every designer more of an equal partner for the client. As long as we are considered a lower form of production service, clients will not involve us properly and will not pay us the money our work deserves. Q: In your almost 30-year old career, you have developed a myriad of typefaces, systems and interfaces, which have been applied to magazines and books and TV channels, trains and cars and planes, motorways and airports and cities. All this has truly shaped our living environment and visual landscape, not only in Germany and Europe, but indeed around the world. Do you ever stop and think on the impact of your work in everything that surrounds millions of people? A: I do. Every time i use the U-Bahn here in Berlin (the Metro), I love the fact that we helped make this a prettier environment than before, plus one that actually helps to get people from A to B effortlessly. And I love the fact that nobody knows who did this. Public design should be invisible. And when people read messages from Deutsche Bahn (German Railways) set in my typefaces, that gives me a kick as well. And again, they don't need to know that someone actually did that, they just need to enjoy reading. Except potential clients: they need to be told that this was done by designers, not machines. Q: Having said that, and also knowing your role in consulting to cities and government institutions and governments themselves, it can be said you are often a "designer of the establishment". How often is your work a victim of politics, or how much does bureaucracy and politics get in the way of your work? A: All the time. Politics are just as important with commercial clients, if not more so. We have to play the politics and stay out of them at the same time. I think i have got pretty good at that and I hope that I still do not betray my principles. I still remember being thrown out of offices because I told clients the truth about their companies, and I still have arguments with them. As long as I have enemies as well as friends, I am not totally corrupt. Q: In 1979 you started Meta, and when that got too big you started the United Designers Network in 2000, which in 2007 became SpiekermannPartners. "Thinking small" to you still means running three offices in three different time zones. Will small ever give way to smaller? A: Small is relative. Nobody ever has more than 7 designers work on one project at the same time, but clients still take work to the big studios because it is safe. It is like using Helvetica: it is never very good, but never really bad. We are not big, but we get big projects because my reputation comes from the big projects I have been responsible for. I could happily just design book covers, but nobody will give me those. Q: Your work is often associated with German Graphic, and Typographic, Design. Do you acknowledge this "Germaneness"? Do you cultivate it? Do you fight it? Does it matter? A: I cannot help being German. But i also lived in London for 9 years, was married to an Englishwoman for 25 years, have an English son and now i'm married to an American lady and spend a lot of time in the US. I consider myself an international German. I like all the good German things about myself. I am reliable although chaotic; punctual, but sometimes a year late, fussy about detail but generous with other peoples' mistakes. Q: A lot of what you do is about improving existing systems or elements, and make them work better for their users, by removing clutter, rethinking processes, optimising outcomes and providing solutions. Is simplifying our lives making our lives too simple? Is there still room for complexity? A: Complex problems have simple, easy to understand, wrong answers. You cannot make complex things simple, but you can make them approachable by designing the interface and the process so that people will actually be encouraged to solve complex problems. Clutter is one of the biggest problems of our lives -- too much of everything. Q: Do you still wear that bow tie sometimes? A: No, but I look at it now and again.
