# Spiekerblog | Typomania is incurable but not lethal.

URL: https://spiekermann.com/en/
Source: spiekermann.com
Fetched: 20260603-122403
Cycle: 7
Quality: 1.00
Language: en
On-topic: yes
Body: 16846 chars, ~2908 words

## Design signals
- top_colors: —
- fonts: Adrian Frutiger, Akzidenz Grotesk, Are Only, Around The World, Bay Area, But There, Deutsche Bahn, Erik Spiekermann, From Scratch, Helvetica, Just Like, Logo Has, Neue Haas Grotesk, New York City, North America, Specimen Book, Thank You, The Business, The Centre, The City, The Craftsman, The Design, The Economist, The End, The Face, The London, The New, The Profession, The Science, The Spirit, The Times, The Work, The World, Warm Red, Will Not, Wood Type, York City, You Don, You See
- designers_mentioned: Adrian Frutiger, Erik Spiekermann, Manual, Stripe, Together
- gradients: 0

## Body

Spiekerblog | Typomania is incurable but not lethal. 16.06.25 A little skyscraper in the centre of Berlin, right by the Außenministerium/Foreign Office is for sale. More information: info@niederwall32.com 12.12.23 Our calendar will last forever, literally: Each day of the week has its own page and its own typeface. All printed by hand on a Korrex proof press at Galerie P98a in Berlin by Dylan Spiekermann, Erik Spiekermann and Ferdinand Ulrich. Jan Gassel organized production and had the calendar backed with a heavy grey card and spiral bound by Ralf Fischer in Berlin. The calendar is 35×70cm, printed on 160gsm MetaPaper Rough in three colours, including white on the red cover. Just like the animated gif below, the calendar will run forever. Or at least until we run out of Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday. For those of you unable to live with English words on the wall, we can provide translations. There were exactly 75 prints, all signed and numbered, but by now we’re down to the last few. They need to go for $/€/£ 20, including shipping, tax etc, regardless where you are. Order it here. 08.12.23 #Akzidenz Grotesk #korrex #letterpress #typography This quote by Jean-Luc Godard has always intrigued me. The discussion about style versus content is as old as the profession of graphic design, and he puts it into perspective. This is a longish quote which uses quite a few characters (eight lower case /e and five /o – all we have in that size), so we couldn’t resort to our larger Akzidenz Grotesk, but had to go to 12 cicero instead. In the end that turned out to be a wise move as the copy wouldn’t have fitted the page at the 16 cicero (i. e. pica or lines in English) size that we normally use for short quotes. As always, the poster is printed on MetaPaper Rough Warm White 160 gsm in Black and Pantone Warm Red ink. From original wood and metal type on our Korrex Frankfurt, 50×70 cm. The 50 posters each are num­bered and signed by Erik Spiek­er­mann. We ship every­where and you can pay by Pay­Pal or credit card. This poster as well as a few others is on sale now for half price. Please go to p98a to order. Going through this blog at the end of 2023 reminded me of the work we did for De Gruyter, a publisher of science books in Berlin, in 2011. After we (at Edenspiekermann) had finished designing layout templates for the science books, Ralph du Carrois and I designed a family of typefaces for these books which would need mathematical and chemical symbols, letters for extinct languages (!) and many more very specific applications. They are extensions of FF MetaSans and FF MetaSerif, each with four weights, and each one of those with approx. 2500 glyphs. As always, our friend and typographic expert, Andreas Eigendorf, did all the quality control on the fonts and produced this “spitter”: a document with all the characters in it. I made it into a movie, which is the least painful way to see them all. True typomaniacs will notice that quite a few characters hadn’t had their overlaps removed at the time. #branding #design #rant A few weeks ago I got carried away and wrote a spontaneous reply to a LinkedIn post about the new Johnson&Johnson logo. Normally, I don’t really care very much about the shape of one logo or another, but that particular project reminded me of the decades I spent designing brands, the fights I had had with clients and colleagues about why we did what we did and why it mattered that we found out what our clients really needed, not simply executed what they told us to do. I suppose I am too old for this fight now, but now and again something awakens my old rebellious spirit. Of course I don’t know the full story, all the obstacles that are a reality when working for clients. But some of them are only excuses, and we need to remind ourselves that we don’t get hired to agree but to think different, even and especially when that is difficult. So here is my rant on LinkedIn that started quite a wave of reactions: *** I’m so fed up with marketing people running projects without acknowledging that we designers might have an idea or two about what communicates and what doesn’t. They’ve been told by tech guys and lazy designers that things have to be simplified to work on screens. This is knowledge from the 90s and not true anymore. Risk and guts have been replaced by bullshit “narratives” invented by people who’ve never taken a risk in their lives. This is the blandification of our world, where fun has to be taken out of the equation because it cannot be quantified. No consumer cares about a company’s internal reorganization, they want to like a brand. When all brands are beige, the beigest one will not win but will be forgotten. The enshittification* of our world is run by people who read spreadsheets in bed and look at their smartphones to tell the weather instead of sticking their heads out of the window. Sometimes I’m glad I’m old and don’t have to take orders from gutless employed managers anymore. My best clients were those I could argue with. It wasn’t about winning or being right, it was about doing the best work. Thank you Audi, Deutsche Bahn, BVG, Bosch, Ottobock, The Economist … *** *That word was coined by Cory Doctorow. Do follow him! 07.12.23 Some of our posters are out of print and we had to reprint them, sometimes several times, albeit each time in a different style, lest we break the promise of a limited run for each of them. Check here which ones are available, out of print or on sale. As we take photos of the printed pieces on the workshop floor at different times, with different cameras and even different photographers, they come out quite, well: different. But they’re all printed on the same MetaPaper Rough Warm White 160 gsm in Black, Pantone Warm Red ink or our favorite color, PMS Daylo red or orange. From original wood type on our Korrex Berlin Special, 50×70 cm. The 50 posters each are num­bered and signed by Erik Spiek­er­mann. We ship every­where and you can pay by Pay­Pal. Price is the same in these cur­rencies: £, $, €; always 98, includ­ing tax (where applic­a­ble) and ship­ping, wrapped in a solid card­board tube. Orders with shipping address please to our shop. Here’s a screenshot of the posters on sale right now (end of 2023): 15 Years (!) ago, Unamono persuaded us, Susanna Dulkinys and myself, to design silk scarves for them. In the video here I explain why I did what I did: I simply wrote the measurements along the edges, in millimeter and inches, and showed those measurements as lines in different colours. Now, if you don’t have a ruler handy, you can pull out your scarf and tell how long or short things are. Some of the scarves Susanna and I designed are still available from our shop, here and here. 06.12.23 The original Akzidenz Grotesk Serie 57 in 16pt lead type in a case a p98a workshop Of course I had seen Akzidenz Grotesk Serie 57 in the Berthold specimens and knew that the weights from 14 point onwards looked different from the smaller text weights, which had been made available for the Linotype. But I had never thought about the design process, even though 1957 was such an important year for typography: Helvetica, Univers! We do know that the first publication of a hot metal typeface rarely marks the beginning nor the end of a years-long process of development, but there must have been a reason why Günter Gerhard Lange chose exactly this year to name the face. The design of the text sizes for machine setting was not changed, only the widths were adapted for the Linotype system. They were available as early as 1957 and could be combined with the Akzidenz Grotesk weights for handsetting. But the spirit of the times wanted more of a system: the members of the AG family had never been coordinated, they had just come together over decades. Adrian Frutiger’s Univers, on the other hand, was designed as a system: tidy, comprehensive, modern, while Neue Haas Grotesk was not yet called H
