# An Overview Of The Most Common UX Design Deliverables — Smashing Magazine

URL: https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2017/09/comprehensive-overview-ux-design-deliverables/
Source: www.smashingmagazine.com
Fetched: 20260603-193557
Cycle: 8
Quality: 1.00
Language: en
On-topic: yes
Body: 17742 chars, ~2863 words

## Design signals
- top_colors: —
- fonts: And How, And That, But There, Check Out, Check Out More, Content Strategy, Design Deliverables, Design Patterns, Design Process, Difference Between, Each Project, Every Issue, For Designers, For Mobile, Get Started, Information Architecture, Interaction Design, Interface Design, Key Elements, Main Content, Martin Scorsese, Much Better, Multiple Ways, Product Design, Site Map, Smashing Magazine, Smashing Magazine Skip, THE FORM, THE USE, THE WEBSITE, The Author, The Business, The Content, The Design, The Essentials, The Form, The List, The Most Common, The Number, The People, The Problem, The Real, The Story, The Study, The Terms, The Things, The Two, The Use, The User, The Work, Thinking About, Usability Testing, Use Them, Used For, User Interfaces, User Research, User Stories, Visual Guide, You Can, You Don, You Want
- designers_mentioned: Replicate
- gradients: 0

## Body

An Overview Of The Most Common UX Design Deliverables — Smashing Magazine Skip to main content Start reading the article Jump to list of all articles Jump to all topics 13 min read UX Design, UX, Guides Share on Twitter, LinkedIn About The Author Nick Babich is a developer, tech enthusiast, and UX lover. He has spent the last 10 years working in the software industry with a specialized focus on … More about Nick ↬ Email Newsletter Weekly tips on front-end & UX. Trusted by 182,000+ folks. Register for Free Celebrating 10 million developers Custom Web Forms for Angular, React, & Vue. Your backend. Smart Interface Design Patterns, 45 lessons + UX training How To Measure UX and Design Impact, 8h video + UX training Cascading Style Systems: Resilient & Maintainable CSS with Miriam Suzanne SmashingConf Freiburg 2026 UX professionals need to communicate design ideas and research findings to a range of audiences. They use deliverables for that purpose. Don’t be surprised by the number of deliverables Nick Babich mentions in this article. Rest assured, each project is different and a UX designer wouldn’t need to produce all of them for each project. Remember that there is no one-size-fits-all deliverable that will be equally effective for all projects. Each deliverable becomes an effective communication tool in the right context and with the right audience. The list below contains the most common deliverables produced by UX designers as they craft great experiences for users. For better readability, I’ve combined the deliverables according to UX activities: Project Assessment Competitor Assessment User Research Information Architecture Interaction Design If you’d like to create and design your own prototypes a bit more differently, you can download and test Adobe XD, and get started right away. Obtaining The Best Mobile User Experience Possible Always remember that design isn’t just for designers — it’s for users. It's important to treat your work as a continually evolving project, and use data from analytics and user feedback to constantly improve the experience. Read a related article → Project Assessment Project assessment is an evaluation process which helps UX designers understand a current state of the product. Analytics Audit An analytics audit is a way to reveal which parts of a website or app are causing headaches for users and are reducing conversions. During an analytics audit, an auditor will use a variety of methods, tools and metrics — traffic sources, traffic flows, conversions (and abandonments) hot spots, etc. — to analyze where a product is going wrong (or right). Ultimately, an analytics audit should enable UX designers to know how to boost conversions by making it easier for users to achieve their goals on the website or app.Numbers provided by an analytics tool on how the user interacts with a product — clicks, user session time, search queries, conversion, etc. — will help UX designers to uncover the unexpected, surfacing behaviors that aren’t explicit in user tests. (Image: Ramotion) (View large version) Tip: Get into the habit of A/B testing your design changes. Knowing that all of your changes will be A/B tested will give you a tremendous amount of freedom to try new (and potentially risky) things. If they work, you’ll find out almost immediately. Also, you won’t need to worry that some change you’ve made will ruin everything. Content Audit Content audit is the process of evaluating information assets on some part or all of an app or website. It could be said that a content audit is a content inventory and evaluation of each page’s content (either qualitative by a person or quantitative using analytics) and/or an assignment of content owners. It involves gathering all of the content on your website or in your app and assessing its relative strengths and weaknesses in order to prioritize your future marketing activities. By auditing, you’ll understand the content much better. You might find things you didn’t know existed, spot duplicated or outdated content, or identify all kinds of relationships in the content. The results of a content audit can be used for a global task (creating a content strategy) or a local task (optimizing a certain page).(Watch video) Usability Test Report Usability testing is a way to see how easy a product is to use by testing it with real users. A usability test report summarizes usability findings in a clear, concise and descriptive way, helping the project team to identify issues and work towards a solution.An example of usability testing report. (Image: Sitback) (View large version) Tip: Rank your findings. Every issue that’s discovered through usability testing is not equally important. A usability report could have 5 or 100 findings, depending on the scale of the study, and sometimes it might be overwhelming for a team to go through all of them. That’s why findings should be ranked in terms of severity (low, medium or high). This will help the team identify critical issues exposed by the usability study. Competitor Assessment Competitor assessment is an assessment of the strengths and weaknesses of current and potential competitors. Assessing the strengths and weaknesses of your rivals is a critical part of your own UX strategy. Competitive Analysis Report An analysis of competitor’s products will map out their existing features in a comparable way. This competitive analysis report helps UX designers to understand industry standards and identify opportunities to innovate in a given area.A competitive analysis allows designers to assess a competitor’s strengths and weaknesses in a selected marketplace and implement effective strategies to improve a product’s competitive advantage. (Image: yellowpencil) (View large version) Tip: A useful starting point for identifying strengths and areas for improvement might be user experience heuristics. While competitive analysis isn’t intended to replicate heuristics evaluation, heuristics can be a good starting point because they offer a good structure for presenting information. Heuristics include efficient navigation, clarity of text and labels, consistency, readability, scannability, etc. Value Proposition A value proposition is a statement that maps out the key aspects of a product: what it is, who it is for and how it will be used. A value proposition helps the team form consensus around what the product will be.A value proposition helps UX designers to keep focus on the important things. (Image: UX Mag (View large version)(Watch video) Tip: Make sure your value proposition is directly associated with key business objectives. By doing this, it will be much easier to have discussions about time and budget for UX activities. User Research User research focuses on understanding user behaviors, needs and motivations through observation techniques, task analysis and other feedback methodologies. Personas A persona is a fictional character who uses the product in a similar way to a potential user type. Personas make it easier for designers to empathize with users throughout the design process. Personas are a controversial tool in the UX armory: Some UX designers love them, others hate them. Thus, it’s important to understand not just benefits but also downsides of personas before using them in your UX design process.A persona is a fictional character who highlights the behaviors, needs and motivations of your target users. (Image: xtensio) (View large version) Tip: The most effective personas are created from in-depth user interviews and observation data of real users. Collect as much information and knowledge about users as possible by interviewing and/or observing a sufficient number of people who represent your target audience. User Story A user story is a simple description of a feature told from the perspective of a user of the product. Basically, it’s a very high-level definition of a requirement (at a conceptual level), containing just enough information that 
