# UAE is well on its way to being the Switzerland of the Middle East and Indian Oc... | Hacker News

URL: https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=40000000
Source: news.ycombinator.com
Fetched: 20260603-033214
Quality: 0.90
Body: 13908 chars, ~2428 words

## Design signals
- top_colors: —
- fonts: —
- designers_mentioned: Huge
- gradients: 0

## Body

UAE is well on its way to being the Switzerland of the Middle East and Indian Oc... | Hacker NewsHacker Newsnew | past | comments | ask | show | jobs | submitlogin keiferski on April 11, 2024 | parent | context | favorite | on: End of the Line? Saudi Arabia to scale back plans ... UAE is well on its way to being the Switzerland of the Middle East and Indian Ocean. Your rhetoric sounds like it’s from 2003. somewho on April 11, 2024 | next [–] You wrote the 40M comment! keiferski on April 12, 2024 | parent | next [–] Do I win a prize? joshxyz on April 12, 2024 | root | parent | next [–] yes a lifetime ban! jk congrats! tomp on April 11, 2024 | prev | next [–] Switzerland isn't the most progressive of countries (it only gave women the right to vote in 1971) but AFAIK you don't go to jail if you fuck a man in the ass, in contrast to UAE. Not something that directly concerns me, but I'm personally more worried about restrictions on freedom of speech, but regardless not somewhere I'd be willing to live (I currently do live in Switzerland). keiferski on April 11, 2024 | parent | next [–] I used Switzerland as an example because of its financial industry. I wasn’t making any commentary on the culture. Presumably if the UAE is the Switzerland of the Middle East and Indian Ocean, it’s more adapted for that cultural environment and not for what Westerners are looking for. These laws are also pretty much never enforced in UAE, as far as I understand. Symbiote on April 11, 2024 | root | parent | next [–] The laws are enforced enough that the British government gives a warning about them for visitors to the UAE. https://www.gov.uk/foreign-travel-advice/united-arab-emirate... keiferski on April 11, 2024 | root | parent | next [–] Government websites are known for giving warnings about lots of things that aren’t a big deal in real life. I am basing my opinion on people I know that have been there, plus topics on Reddit, etc. But of course your mileage may vary and it’s reasonable to be worried about such laws if they might apply to you. itsoktocry on April 11, 2024 | root | parent | prev | next [–] >These laws are also pretty much never enforced in UAE, as far as I understand. They are never enforced, until you become a target, then you're arrested and charged with a list violations. I mean, we do this too, to some degree. But this is naive. ponector on April 11, 2024 | parent | prev | next [–] Why so harsh example? This one is better: a woman in UAE went to the doctor(gynecologist) and ended up in jail because doctor found out she is pregnant but not married. zaphirplane on April 11, 2024 | root | parent | next [–] In America a black man driving a clean car can be pulled over and shot dead by police In many American states a raped woman has to carry her rapist off spring to term In America black people are significantly over represented in jails, poverty, illiteracy, single parent families. I’m sure the 5 largest western democracies have similar issues ponector on April 11, 2024 | root | parent | next [–] Are there special laws for black people? no, it is not comparable with UAE. ceejayoz on April 11, 2024 | root | parent | next [–] > Are there special laws for black people? Formally documented de jure discrimination is hardly the only available approach. For example, the term "grandfather clause" stems from Southern states applying severe voter restrictions (poll taxes, literacy tests, etc.) but exempting anyone whose ancestors had the right to vote on a particular pre-Civil War date. Functionally? Permitted poor/uneducated whites but not blacks to vote without ever mentioning a race in the law. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Guinn_v._United_States "No person shall be registered as an elector of this state or be allowed to vote in any election held herein, unless he be able to read and write any section of the Constitution of the state of Oklahoma; but no person who was, on January 1, 1866, or any time prior thereto, entitled to vote under any form of government, or who at that time resided in some foreign nation, and no lineal descendant of such person, shall be denied the right to register and vote because of his inability to so read and write sections of such Constitution." zaphirplane on April 11, 2024 | root | parent | prev | next [–] Meaningless hair splitting to a middle class black American shot dead for driving a washed car Symbiote on April 11, 2024 | parent | prev | next [–] You should be worried about gay rights: some years ago, a French teenage boy was raped by some local men, and the authorities initially tried to get the boy to confess. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gang_rape has some more examples. alwa on April 11, 2024 | root | parent | next [–] That would be 15-year-old Alexandre Robert, in 2007 https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rape_of_Alexandre_Robert A number of particularly nasty elements to the response—including that the authorities knew that one of the rapists carried HIV, and had previously segregated him in custody to prevent him spreading the virus to other prisoners, but they fabricated medical tests to the contrary and lied to the boy’s family. tomp on April 11, 2024 | root | parent | prev | next [–] Which country are you talking about? Symbiote on April 11, 2024 | root | parent | next [–] UAE, obviously, since I was replying to your comment saying you weren't concerned with gay rights in UAE. dindobre on April 11, 2024 | prev | next [–] Will the world's criminals start storing their money there or did you mean something else with Switzerland of the Middle East? keiferski on April 11, 2024 | parent | next [–] > The U.S. is the top destination for stashing money illegally, according to a new report from a pro-tax advocacy group. https://www.cbsnews.com/news/fact-coalition-report-us-money-... trissylegs on April 11, 2024 | parent | prev | next [–] Start? Uae is a place known for storing and moving shady money. Very few extradition treatys. benterix on April 11, 2024 | root | parent | next [–] > Very few extradition treatys. Which is also excellent not just for stealing, but also for murder. Half a year ago a German-born Pole killed a family in a car crash and run away to UAE.[0] They tried to extradit him but without success. [0] https://bnnbreaking.com/breaking-news/accidents/suspected-fa... inslee1 on April 11, 2024 | root | parent | next [–] That article says he was trying to flee to the Dominican Republic, not the UAE. benterix on April 11, 2024 | root | parent | next [–] The article is from October - in the meantime it turned out he actually fled to UAE. The Polish government tried to extradite him but failed. There are many sources on that, unfortunately in Polish only. dindobre on April 11, 2024 | root | parent | prev | next [–] I didn't know that, but I guess that's not too surprising. zaphirplane on April 11, 2024 | root | parent | prev | next [–] Uk is the world’s money laundering capital of the world cess11 on April 11, 2024 | parent | prev | next [–] Probably not, they'll still put the money in Luxembourg and Switzerland, but they can exchange gold and diamonds and stuff like that from shady dealings in Africa for money there. If you look into it you'll find that it's a nice marketplace for israeli oligarchs running operations in DR Congo, e.g. for diamonds which Israel exports unexpected amounts of, and you'll also find that the Rapid Support Forces/Janjaweed in Sudan are buddies of the UAE. Unlike Switzerland the UAE is quite aggressive militarily, e.g. occupying part of Yemen. dindobre on April 11, 2024 | root | parent | next [–] I find your second paragraph especially interesting, do you have a source (e.g. a book) to get deeper into this? cess11 on April 11, 2024 | root | parent | next [–] Been a while since I last had a run through books about this and no time at the moment to go remind myself about titles, but I can give some links to start digging. Main export of Israel: https://oec.world/en/profile/bilateral-product
