# Saville Associates | Typophile

URL: https://web.archive.org/web/20170909190123/http://www.typophile.com/node/4549
Source: web.archive.org
Fetched: 20260603-202636
Cycle: 10
Quality: 1.00
Language: en
On-topic: yes
Body: 16703 chars, ~3057 words

## Design signals
- top_colors: —
- fonts: About This, And That, Archive The, Around The World, Aug SEP Oct, Brett Wickens, Design Museum, Design School, Helvetica, His Own, His Work, Internet Archive, Internet Archive These, Jonathan Scott, Joy Division, Know About, Kris Sowersby, Love With, Main Content, Much Better, New Alphabet, Not For, Open Source, Other Designers, Peter Saville, Really Love, Recent Projects, Saville Associates, Should Know, Site Credits, South Africa, TIMESTAMPS The Wayback, The Age, The Book, The Day, The Design, The Design Museum, The Face, The Foundry, The Idea, The Importance, The Internet, The Journey, The London, The Movie, The New, The People, The Post, The Relevance, The Revival, The Time, The Wayback Machine, The Web, The World, Used For, Wayback Machine, Wikipedia Articles, Wikipedia Near Real, Wikipedia Pages, Will Not, Wim Crouwel, YOHJI YAMAMOTO, YOUR USE, Years Ago, Years Before, Years Later, Yohji Yamamoto, You Could, Your Use
- designers_mentioned: Pentagram, Together, Wim Crouwel
- gradients: 0

## Body

Saville Associates | Typophile 18 captures 03 Mar 2010 - 25 Jan 2025 Aug SEP Oct 09 2016 2017 2018 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Organization: Internet Archive These crawls are part of an effort to archive pages as they are created and archive the pages that they refer to. That way, as the pages that are referenced are changed or taken from the web, a link to the version that was live when the page was written will be preserved. Then the Internet Archive hopes that references to these archived pages will be put in place of a link that would be otherwise be broken, or a companion link to allow people to see what was originally intended by a page's authors. The goal is to fix all broken links on the web. Crawls of supported "No More 404" sites. Collection: Wikipedia Near Real Time (from IRC) This is a collection of web page captures from links added to, or changed on, Wikipedia pages. The idea is to bring a reliability to Wikipedia outlinks so that if the pages referenced by Wikipedia articles are changed, or go away, a reader can permanently find what was originally referred to. This is part of the Internet Archive's attempt to rid the web of broken links. TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20170909190123/http://www.typophile.com/node/4549 Skip to main content Saville Associates Primary tabs View(active tab) Voting results 29 posts / 0 new Log in or register to post comments Last post 30 April 2004 - 8:03am #1 Robert Johnston Offline Joined: 17 Apr 2004 - 8:56am Saville Associates Rating +1 0 -1 … have a website under construction: http://www.saville-associates.com I wonder if anybody else ﬁnds this as exciting as I do … ? And as typically Saville-weird — it takes him until 2004 to get a website moving. I guess he’s controversial as a designer — I spoke to a designer acquaintance recently about my visit to the Peter Saville Show at the London Design Museum and he erupted in a rant about how Saville was a dilettante, a has-been and a hands-oﬀ ‘Art Director’ who only bothers to get out of bed (generally at around 4pm) to give a thumbs-up or -down to whatever his acolytes are working on. And I’m sure that’s all true. Yet still — to my eye — everything he touches has a mystery and perfection to it that nobody can match. He was the reason — as for so many people, I’m sure — that I ended up in the ﬁeld I’m in; the early New Order and Joy Division covers were such extraordinary objects that they engendered in me a fascination with design — and particularly type — that started me on the journey I’m on now. There’s so much that’s interesting about Saville and his work — where to begin? That his old typographer, Brett Wickens, is now at MetaDesign and supervised the current redesign of the Adobe product line, which owes so much to Saville & Wickens’ work for Yohji Yamamoto? That he’s perhaps single-handedly responsible for the revival of the late-modernist Swiss design ethic in the late 80s (and which continues today)? Did anyone else buy the book? R Top Log in or register to post comments 30 April 2004 - 9:05am #2 darrel Offline Joined: 4 Feb 2003 - 6:03pm +1 0 -1 “Plug-in Not Loaded” Hmm…site seems kind of lame to me. ;o) Top Log in or register to post comments 30 April 2004 - 9:09am #3 Robert Johnston Offline Joined: 17 Apr 2004 - 8:56am +1 0 -1 It’s really just a holding page at the moment, with a Shockwave slideshow of some recent work. I was more interested in sparking oﬀ some discussion about Saville himself rather than the site. That said, whoever does his web design seems obsessed with Shockwave. See http://www.showstudio.com, which Saville and long-time photographer companion Nick Knight have an involvement in. R Top Log in or register to post comments 30 April 2004 - 9:10am #4 Robert Johnston Offline Joined: 17 Apr 2004 - 8:56am +1 0 -1 I meant ‘colleague’. Not ‘companion’. ;) Top Log in or register to post comments 30 April 2004 - 11:41am #5 Hrant H Papazian Offline Joined: 3 May 2000 - 11:00am +1 0 -1 For something like this Flash is much better than Shockwave — it has double the penetration. And the blurry Helvetica blows chunks — they should use a UPF: http://www.ultrafonts.com About Saville itself: no real idea — sorry. Except to say they either don’t value the web or they don’t understand it. hhp Top Log in or register to post comments 30 April 2004 - 9:20pm #6 Lucian Costello Offline Joined: 30 Apr 2004 - 4:18pm +1 0 -1 Robert, I went to a talk he gave at the Urbis museum last month, thought he was one of the most interesting and charismatic speakers I’ve heard in a long time. It’s often diﬃcult to distil into words just why his designs have such a resonance, the mystery you describe, the uncluttered, classical, almost at times austere layouts are why I think his design work has an ageless quality. Coupled with his uncanny prescient feel for condensing new contemporary trends into a meaningful visual format and you realise Factory were fortunate indeed. Someone asked him at the talk which font he wanted on his gravestone, he chose News Plantin, used by his own studio on their identity and branding. Quite ironic seeing as it was selected by ‘Graphic Thought Facility’ after the Design Museum commissioned the agency, when they felt it was too risky hiring Saville in case he missed the deadline for his own show! Talk about your reputation preceding you. There’s another interesting book which came out late last year, a limited edition monograph which has much better quality reproductions, if less theory than ‘Designed…’ available here. Top Log in or register to post comments 1 May 2004 - 5:31am #7 Robert Johnston Offline Joined: 17 Apr 2004 - 8:56am +1 0 -1 Thanks for the tip on the book Lucian — I’ve contacted the guy to get a price. Have you any idea who runs that site? I’ve looked at it before and he has some really interesting essays and interviews. R Top Log in or register to post comments 1 May 2004 - 1:51pm #8 Kenn Munk Offline Joined: 1 Oct 2002 - 11:00am +1 0 -1 Peter Saville has had a website up for some time, but it was at one of these free hosting places, probably some Mb’s he got with his internet connection, I’ll see if I can ﬁnd it, hang on…. A few minutes later… (imagine this in slanted handlettering in a yellow box.) http://www.btinternet.com/~comme6/saville/ Top Log in or register to post comments 1 May 2004 - 7:28pm #9 kris sowersby Offline Joined: 18 Feb 2003 - 11:00am +1 0 -1 Yeah mate. I reckon Mr Saville is tremendous. I pretty much purchased Unknown Pleasures based on the cover, although I “sort of” knew of Joy Division. I would love to get hold of his book. Very good designer, very good designer. kris. Top Log in or register to post comments 2 May 2004 - 8:27am #10 Robert Johnston Offline Joined: 17 Apr 2004 - 8:56am +1 0 -1 Wow — so that ~comme6 site is actually Saville? I thought it was some kind of tribute site … R Top Log in or register to post comments 2 May 2004 - 10:11am #11 Chase J Goitia Offline Joined: 12 Apr 2004 - 11:14pm +1 0 -1 If the ‘~comme6’ site is actually Saville, he should know better than to yoink Flash from another designer, even if it is open source. Top Log in or register to post comments 2 May 2004 - 11:45am #12 Sarnie Niemann Offline Joined: 2 May 2004 - 11:40am +1 0 -1 To be fair to Saville, he does namecheck Levitated’s Jared on the Site Credits page. Wonderful designer…really love the waste painting series. Top Log in or register to post comments 2 May 2004 - 12:34pm #13 Chase J Goitia Offline Joined: 12 Apr 2004 - 11:14pm +1 0 -1 Ah, I checked his Links section and didn’t ﬁnd a ‘trackback’ or credit there. It was sort of a knee-jerk reaction to seeing it used as a splash on another designer’s site. Is that comedienne Sarah Silverman on his “New Order: Untitled”? Top Log in or register to post comments 2 May 2004 - 1:33pm #14 Sarnie Niemann Offline Joined: 2 May 2004 - 11:40am +1 0 -1 Don’t worry Chase, Saville is always getting into trouble for — coug
