# Classroom 2.0

URL: https://web.archive.org/web/20100922053119/http://www.classroom20.com/
Source: web.archive.org
Fetched: 20260603-231043
Cycle: 13
Quality: 0.97
Language: en
On-topic: yes
Body: 16830 chars, ~2638 words

## Design signals
- top_colors: —
- fonts: About The, About This, Alexa Crawls Starting, Alexa Internet, And How, And More, Are You, Around The World, Aug SEP Oct, But She, Check Out, Crawl Data, Education Week, First Time, Foreign Languages, Fort Worth, Google Earth, High School, Higher Education, Inter, Internet Archive, Internet Explorer, Learn How, Learn More, Learn More About, Looking For, More Details, Not Just, Open Source, OvEr ThE, Professional Development, San Diego, Social Media, THE USE, TIMESTAMPS The Wayback, The Chronicle, The Conversation, The Group, The Internet, The Journey, The Number, The School, The Social, The Style, The United States, The Use, The Wayback Machine, The Week, The World, View All, Wayback Machine, Will Not, Working With, You Can, You Can Use
- designers_mentioned: Hara
- gradients: 0

## Body

Classroom 2.0 Aug SEP Oct 22 2009 2010 2011 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Organization: Alexa Crawls Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive. Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period. Collection: alexa_web_2010 this data is currently not publicly accessible. TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20100922053119/http://www.classroom20.com:80/ Sign Up Sign In Classroom 2.0 Main My Page Forum Members Blogs Groups Media Photos Videos Alerts More Events LIVE! Shows Wiki Workshops Chat WELCOME! Welcome to Classroom20.com, the social network for those interested in Web 2.0 and Social Media in education. We encourage you to sign up to participate in the great discussions here, to receive event notifications, and to find and connect with colleagues. Classroom 2.0 is a free, community-supported network. We especially hope that those who are "beginners" will find this a supportive comfortable place to start being part of the digital dialog. If you feel that you are a beginner and want some extra help, please click here to join the Beginner Group as soon as you've registered. Because of spammers, we have to approve all memberships here (it makes it easier if you fill out your profile). While your membership is pending you are still welcome to peruse the site or attend any events! Once approved, you can introduce yourself to the whole network by going to the introductory forum message. Please also feel free to explore! Here are some starting tips and a "Tour of Classroom 2.0" webcast video, or you can ask help of a "host" below. If you are representing a commercial entity, please see the specific guidelines on your participation. Please also read our "spamming" policy. (Note: If you can see this site from school but have any difficulty actually signing up from that school location, it may be a filtering issue related to the sign-up security pages. You may have to sign up from home or outside of the school network. So sorry!) Links: Future of Education Interview Series Conversations.net Interview Series Original EdTechLive Interview Series on Open Source Software and School 2.0 LearnCentral.org Aula 2.0 Steve Hargadon's Blog White Paper on Social Networking in Education: Free Classroom 2.0 LIVE Workshops in the U.S. Check out our series of free live workshops around the United States on the use of Web 2.0 technologies in education. More details and information here. Visitor Map Announcing: follow classroom20 at http://twitter.com Diigo CR 2.0 Bookmarked Sites 15 Back to School Apps for Teachers Classroom iPad Programs Get Mixed Response - Wired Campus - The Chronicle of Higher Education Class Blogs Blogs Wikis Docs Chart Nine elements of digital citizenship | Bright ideas Online Typing Tutors #moodle Internet Explorer - The Number one Browser For Downloading a Better Browser [PIC] Instructional Media Center > Printing > Poster Templates Segue Project Page How to open eps files in GIMP More… Photos Loading… Add Photos View All Videos Stuck! Added by Johnathan Chase Add Videos View All Birthdays Birthdays Today A Weaver Alexandria Ana María Rodera Ana Monge Andrew Dickinson Andrew Hill Anna Cavender Barry Smith Ben McShane Betsy Wagner Members View All Latest Activity Roger Lee replied to Roger Lee's discussion 'WEATHER PARTNERS NEEDED' Hey Alan, So, you'd be willing to have your students give us weather info for one week in December or January? We're going to be doing ours in the style of a weather forecast on the news, but yours can just be giving us the info through skype. If t…2 hours ago mrsdurff added a blog post Calling all Students!! I would like to invite your students to participate in The Global Education Conference this November 15-19, 2010. This conference is held online in Elluminate over 5 days in multiple time zones. We are interested in participants, presenters and part…3 hours ago E Cohen added a discussion Show Your Work (in math) Hello, I have a laptop classroom, and I am wondering what ideas/advice are out there for this problem: The math coordinator in my school is extremely helpful (and I definitely need the help because its my first year teaching math!), but she's very…3 hours ago shegstrom replied to Mr. Bentz's discussion 'Computer Class - Collaboration - Serious Creativity and Fun' Vicky, I would be intersted in this at well. I live in Plaistow NH and have many web 2.0 tools available to me. I would love to Skype or get collaboration on our wikis. skype - shegstrom trms.wikispaces.com mrshegstrom.wetpaint.com sherry.hegstrom@t…5 hours ago shegstrom replied to Mr. Bentz's discussion 'Computer Class - Collaboration - Serious Creativity and Fun' Are you still interested in doing this. I have some 7th grade technology students I would love to do some distance learning with? sherry.hegstrom@timberlane.net sykpe username = shegstrom wikis's = trms.wikispaces.com mrshegsrom.wetpaint.com5 hours ago Anne Mirtschin commented on Jamey Robbins's blog post 'How do you use Facebook or Twitter in the classroom?' I also use twitter in my class (secondary students) as a search engine, so that students get people, what is happening now, feelings, emotions etc and not just urls.7 hours ago Dale Price replied to Kaila Soltez's discussion 'Homework: yes or no?' I don't really see how your students could get an adequate amount of practice without homework of some kind. With my classes it is a little different I teach high school technology classes and all of my students work is done in the classroom so that…8 hours ago Mary Hosier added a discussion Global seasonal change phenology We'd like to invite your students to participate in an awesome project within Journey North (http://www.learner.org/jnorth). In the fall and spring students report to our site with their observations of seasonal change. We would love to hear from st…8 hours ago Ms. Fernholz replied to Elise Jury's discussion 'Ideas for Middle School Math' Hi Elise, I also work with middle school math teachers. Does your school have SMART Boards?9 hours ago Deborah Arcaro added a discussion to the group Early Learning Preschool Professionals Virtual Fieldtrips for Preschoolers Has anyone done any virtual fieldtrips with their preschoolers? I am interested in any resources for this. I cannot travel from my site and am looking for ways to enhance their learning experiences. Thanks9 hours ago Julie Guerrero added 40 photos. 36 more…10 hours ago RSS Groups - Find a Special-Interest Group or Start Your Own Second Language in Eleme… 16 members Classroom 2.0 Beginner G… 827 members Jungle Cats 1 member MultiSeat for Education 9 members Early Learning Preschool… 7 members Free & Open Source Softw… 466 members Elementary School 2.0 891 members Canadians Mashup 197 members Middle School Science 75 members Distance Collaborations 496 members View All Forum Make-Up DQ #2 After completing the novel, Their Eyes Watching God, by Zora Neal Hurston, we have identified the use of many literary elements throughout the journey of Janie Starks. Hurston's choice of dialogue i… Started by AMS English II Pre-AP in Book Discussions 56 minutes ago. WEATHER PARTNERS NEEDED 2 Replies We are a fifth grade class in Fort Worth, Texas. I am searching for a class or individuals that could contact us through webcam/skype for a week to exchange weather information for our areas. We… Tagged: weather Started by Roger Lee in First Time Posting. Last reply by Roger Lee 2 hours ago. Show Your Work (in math) Hello, I have a laptop classroom, and I am wondering what ideas/advice are out there for this problem: The math coordinator in my school is extremely helpful (and I definitely need the help because… Started by E Cohen in Introductions 3 hours ago. Computer Class - Collaboration - Serious Creativity and Fun 8 Replies I teach 6th and 7th graders in San Diego, CA. I'm looking to collaborate with other t
