# Accessibility in Web 2.0 technology

URL: https://web.archive.org/web/20150402110510/http://www.ibm.com/developerworks/library/wa-aj-web20/
Source: web.archive.org
Fetched: 20260603-231942
Cycle: 13
Quality: 1.00
Language: en
On-topic: yes
Body: 24049 chars, ~3675 words

## Design signals
- top_colors: —
- fonts: About This, Accessibility Technology, And More, And What, Archive The, Down Arrow, Email Address, First Time, For You, Hot Topic, Internet Archive, Internet Archive These, Learn More, Main Content, Main Content Area, Mar APR May, Open Source, Press Enter, Read The, Software Engineer, Source Code, Staff Software Engineer, THE USE, TIMESTAMPS The Wayback, The Author, The Content, The Element, The Elements, The IBM, The Idea, The Internet, The List, The Magic, The Most Common, The Relationship, The Role, The Search, The Text, The Use, The User, The Visual, The WCAG, The Wayback Machine, The Web, The Web Accessibility, The Web Content, The World, The World Wide, They Can, This Article, Topics Web, Use This, Used For, User Experiences, User Input, User Interfaces, Wayback Machine, Web Accessibility, Web Consortium, Web Content, Web Content Accessibility, Web Development, Web Sites, Web Standards, Wide Web, Wikipedia Articles, Wikipedia Near Real, Wikipedia Pages, Will Not, With Web, World Wide Web, You Can, You Can Use, You Need
- designers_mentioned: —
- gradients: 0

## Body

Accessibility in Web 2.0 technology 42 captures 07 Sep 2009 - 22 Aug 2025 Mar APR May 02 2014 2015 2016 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Organization: Internet Archive These crawls are part of an effort to archive pages as they are created and archive the pages that they refer to. That way, as the pages that are referenced are changed or taken from the web, a link to the version that was live when the page was written will be preserved. Then the Internet Archive hopes that references to these archived pages will be put in place of a link that would be otherwise be broken, or a companion link to allow people to see what was originally intended by a page's authors. The goal is to fix all broken links on the web. Crawls of supported "No More 404" sites. Collection: Wikipedia Near Real Time (from IRC) This is a collection of web page captures from links added to, or changed on, Wikipedia pages. The idea is to bring a reliability to Wikipedia outlinks so that if the pages referenced by Wikipedia articles are changed, or go away, a reader can permanently find what was originally referred to. This is part of the Internet Archive's attempt to rid the web of broken links. TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20150402110510/http://www.ibm.com/developerworks/library/wa-aj-web20/ Sign in | Register developerWorks Community ›My profile ›My communities ›Settings ›Sign out IBM Technical topics Evaluation software Community Events developerWorks Technical topics Web development Technical library Accessibility in Web 2.0 technology Accessibility has become a hot topic as increased awareness and growing requirements demand that applications take into account the needs of all potential users. Accessibility covers not only the Web application, but document, desktop application and hardware, and so on. In the Web application domain, making static Web pages accessible is relatively easy. But for Web 2.0 technology, dynamic content and fancy visual effects can make accessibility testing very difficult. This article introduces the WAI-ARIA standard, which is designed to make future Asynchronous JavaScript and XML (Ajax) widgets accessible. The article also covers accessibility principles in Web 2.0 design and provides several code samples to get you started. PDF (536 KB) | Share: Jie Hu (hujiesh@cn.ibm.com), Staff Software Engineer, IBM Close [x] Jie Hu is a technical leader in the Globalization Development area at the IBM China Development Lab in Shanghai. He has six years experience in J2EE development. Luo Ling (luol@cn.ibm.com), Software Engineer, IBM Close [x] Luo Ling is an expert on Dojo development and accessibility technology Dan Wang, Staff Software Engineer, IBM Close [x] Dan Wang has worked in the IBM China Development Lab since 2006 and has participated in several J2EE projects. He is interested in new Web technology including Web 2.0 and mashup technologies. Shi Wei, Staff Software Engineer, IBM Close [x] Shi Wei Ji is a software engineer from CDL Shanghai. He is an expert of User Technology. 01 September 2009 Also available in Chinese Japanese Table of contents Introduction WAI-ARIA introduction Solve common accessibility Issues in dynamic Web contents using WAI-ARIA Conclusions Resources Comments Introduction Accessibility, which removes the barriers that prevent certain groups of people from accessing information, is becoming a common requirement for Web applications. The groups that accessible Web apps are targeted to help include people with disabilities, mature users, and other people who may be challenged by the visual and physical elements of operating a program. With the help of modern assistive technologies, these people are able to interact with a software application, but only if the application is developed in full compliance with accessibility standards. With the rapid development of rich client technologies, many Web applications have evolved into the Web 2.0 age. Using Ajax libraries like Dojo or other client-side technologies such as Flash, Web sites are bringing a more robust user experience to the browser. Web elements can be updated dynamically or dragged and dropped anywhere in the page. User experiences once considered only applicable for desktop applications are now available for the Web user as well. In 2008, the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C), an international group that works to develop Web standards, published the Web Content Accessibility Guideline (WCAG) 2.0. The WCAG 2.0 document defines a list of guidelines that can make Web content more accessible for people with disabilities. It is designed to cover most of the existing Web technologies as well as conceivable future technologies, including dynamic content in Web 2.0 technology. According to WCAG 2.0, there are some common accessibility issues that are typically found in Web 2.0 applications. These issues can be categorized into four kinds of problems: Document structure Dynamic content updates Enhanced keyboard accessibility Widget accessibility Within this article, we take a look at each of these problems and propose possible solutions. Back to top WAI-ARIA introduction WAI-ARIA stands for the Web Accessibility Initiative – Accessible Rich Internet Application suite. It defines a way to make Web content and Web applications more accessible to people with disabilities. It especially helps with Web 2.0 characteristics such as dynamic content and other advanced user interface controls developed with Ajax, HTML, JavaScript, and related technologies. WAI-ARIA is a set of tag-libs for normal HTML tags that can only be mapped to useful information by browsers and Assistive Tools (AT) that support them. WAI-ARIA acts like a contract between the ATs and the Web user interface, which brings more rich information such as roles and states to the Web page user interface. Figure 1 shows the relationship between the Assistive Tools and the Web user interface. Figure 1. The AT and Web pages relationship using WAI-ARIA WAI-ARIA mainly has two parts of content: WAI-ARIA Roles and WAI-ARIA States and Properties. Table 1 shows the main taxonomy of WAI-ARIA contents. Table 1. Main content of WAI-ARIARoles States and Properties Base Types Widget Attributes User Input Widgets Live Region Attributes User Interface Elements Drag-and-Drop Attributes Specialized Regions Relationship Attributes Landmark Roles Currently, many Web 2.0 characteristics are not accessible to people with disabilities, especially those who rely on screen readers and those who cannot use mouse devices. WAI-ARIA defines functionality for ATs, which we cover in some detail in the following sections. Additionally, some browsers and Assistive Tools already support WAI-ARIA, such as FireFox 3.0 and JAWS 10.x. Back to top Solve common accessibility Issues in dynamic Web contents using WAI-ARIA Let's look at the four common problems identified by WCAG 2.0 and discuss some strategies to address them. Document structure "Programmatically determined" Quoting from the document "Understanding WCAG20" (See Resources): "Content that can be 'programmatically determined' can be transformed (by user agents including AT) into different sensory formats (e.g., visual, auditory) or styles of presentation need by individual users. If existing assistive technologies cannot do this, then the information cannot be said to be programmatically determined." In other words, the content must have some sort of consistent self-definition that can be recognized and used by something such as a screen reader. With the current HTML version, the function or purpose of page elements can't be identified programmatically. Therefore, it is almost impossible for the screen reader to tell the users where they are in the page. Screen readers also can't identify the purpose of a page element. For example, a <div> can be a pop-up window, a text input, or many other things. WCAG 2.0 states that the Web application should provide a short
