# Mainstream Media Usage of Web 2.0 Services is Increasing

URL: https://web.archive.org/web/20110811174656/http://www.readwriteweb.com/archives/mainstream_media_web20.php
Source: web.archive.org
Fetched: 20260603-231251
Cycle: 13
Quality: 0.97
Language: en
On-topic: yes
Body: 8160 chars, ~1314 words

## Design signals
- top_colors: —
- fonts: About This, And What, Archive The, Big Data, Business Week, Crawl Data, From March, From One, Internet Archive, Internet Archive The, Jul AUG Sep, Know About, Mainstream Media Usage, May Not, NEW YORK, New York Times, Not Just, Online Communities, Popular New, Search Trends, Semantic Web, Social Media, Social Networks, TIMESTAMPS The Wayback, The Chart, The Content, The Data, The Internet, The New, The Power, The Social, The Wayback Machine, The Web, The Year, This Article, Time Magazine, Twitter Facebook, Wall Street, Washington Post, Wayback Machine, Web Sites, What Would, Wide Crawl, Wide Crawl Started, York Times, You Want
- designers_mentioned: Apple, Huge
- gradients: 0

## Body

Mainstream Media Usage of Web 2.0 Services is Increasing 86 captures 02 Feb 2007 - 24 Oct 2025 Jul AUG Sep 11 2010 2011 2012 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Organization: Internet Archive The Internet Archive discovers and captures web pages through many different web crawls. At any given time several distinct crawls are running, some for months, and some every day or longer. View the web archive through the Wayback Machine. Collection: Wide Crawl started March 2011 Web wide crawl with initial seedlist and crawler configuration from March 2011. This uses the new HQ software for distributed crawling by Kenji Nagahashi. What’s in the data set: Crawl start date: 09 March, 2011 Crawl end date: 23 December, 2011 Number of captures: 2,713,676,341 Number of unique URLs: 2,273,840,159 Number of hosts: 29,032,069 The seed list for this crawl was a list of Alexa’s top 1 million web sites, retrieved close to the crawl start date. We used Heritrix (3.1.1-SNAPSHOT) crawler software and respected robots.txt directives. The scope of the crawl was not limited except for a few manually excluded sites. However this was a somewhat experimental crawl for us, as we were using newly minted software to feed URLs to the crawlers, and we know there were some operational issues with it. For example, in many cases we may not have crawled all of the embedded and linked objects in a page since the URLs for these resources were added into queues that quickly grew bigger than the intended size of the crawl (and therefore we never got to them). We also included repeated crawls of some Argentinian government sites, so looking at results by country will be somewhat skewed. We have made many changes to how we do these wide crawls since this particular example, but we wanted to make the data available “warts and all” for people to experiment with. We have also done some further analysis of the content. If you would like access to this set of crawl data, please contact us at info at archive dot org and let us know who you are and what you’re hoping to do with it. We may not be able to say “yes” to all requests, since we’re just figuring out whether this is a good idea, but everyone will be considered. TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20110811174656/http://www.readwriteweb.com/archives/mainstream_media_web20.php ReadWriteWeb Key Trends Location App Stores Real-Time Web Internet of Things Mobile Structured Data Top Topics location android mobile google privacy facebook microsoft Channels ReadWriteWeb ReadWriteStart ReadWriteBiz ReadWriteEnterprise ReadWriteCloud ReadWriteHack ReadWriteMobile Jobs Reports Online Communities Big Data The Social Layer Cloud Computing Augmented Reality Real-Time Web Community Management International ReadWriteFrance ReadWriteSpain ReadWriteBrazil ReadWriteChina About Subscribe Contact Advertise Subscribe to ReadWriteWeb Home Archives Features Tags Best of RWW Featured: ReadWriteCloud | RWW Solution Series Mainstream Media Usage of Web 2.0 Services is Increasing By Richard MacManus / January 30, 2007 4:29 PM / 27 Comments Tweet Hacker News Share & Save Written by Alex Iskold and edited by Richard MacManus I was reading a Time magazine article online today, entitled Marketing to your mind. This article was very provocative and I enjoyed reading it. But after I was done, something else caught my attention. I was surprised to see a row of 'web 2.0' buttons at the bottom of the article. Time magazine, a mainstream publication, has an impressive array of web links to these services. Is this an indication that mainstream media has caught the new social media winds? Time magazine after all did name the Web-enabled YOU as their person of the Year last year. Media is the vehicle for disseminating new services Whether we like it or not, media has a huge influence on us. We learn news and in exchange media gets to pitch us (gently) their points of view and their advertisements. The blogosphere has a strong hold on the minds of early adopters. However, it is mainstream publications that reach millions of people - many of whom still know very little nothing about new web technologies. Saturating media hubs - like New York Times, PCMagazine and Business Week - with links to popular new web sites and services, is critical to achieving the threshold for mass adoption of those services. So the key question is: Has mainstream media recognized 'web 2.0' (or the read/write Web, or whatever you want to call it)? To answer this question, we reviewed the web sites of some prominent newspapers and magazines. The result is the chart below. As seen from the chart, and perhaps surprisingly, many publications have incorporated web 2.0 services into their sites. Time magazine has a particularly impressive array, followed closely by New York Times, Washington Post and InfoWorld. Notably two publications owned by IDG, Macworld and ComputerWorld, are lagging behind. Yet even these publications recognize the power of RSS - the single most widely adopted feature. Indeed, all the mainstream media websites I surveyed had RSS feeds. Mainstream adoption is nearing It appears that we are nearing a tipping point for the mass adoption of prominent web 2.0 services, like digg and del.icio.us. Endorsement by mainstream media opens these services up to millions of people who otherwise would either not know about them, or not take them seriously. So these are not just links, these are literally endorsements - or recognition of additional value for mainstream media. The image above is from Dr. Barabasi's network gallery And if 2007 brings massive adoption to services like del.icio.us, digg and facebook, what would those services be worth then?! Ironically I am writing this from one of the Starbucks cafes on Wall Street, which after it got burned by tech stocks in 1999 practically closed its doors to the tech IPOs. Could the mainstream adoption of these services change the minds of gray-haired men and women in Armani suits? Perhaps. What we do know is that whenever crowds come, the (advertising) money follows. Of course only time will tell, but it seems like 2007 will provide a good measuring stick for mainstream adoption of 'web 2.0'. Tweet « Prior Post Next Post » Posted in Analysis Subscribe E-mail This Print This Digg Share Mainstream Media Usage of Web 2.0 Services is Increasing Written by Alex Iskold and edited by Richard MacManus\n\n \n\n I was reading a Time magazine article online today, entitled Marketing to your\nmind. This article was very provocative and I enjoyed reading it. But after I was\ndone, something else caught my attention. I was surprised to see a row of 'web 2.0'\nbuttons at the bottom of the article. Time magazine, a mainstream publication, has an\nimpressive array of web links to these services. Is this an indication that mainstream\nmedia has caught the new social media winds? Time magazine after all did name the\nWeb-enabled YOU as their person of the Year last year.\n\n Media is the vehicle for disseminating new services\n\n Whether we like it or not, media has a huge influence on us. We learn news and in\nexchange media gets to pitch us (gently) their points of view and their advertisements.\nThe blogosphere has a strong hold on the minds of early adopters. However, it is\nmainstream publications that reach millions of people - many of whom still know very\nlittle nothing about new web technologies. RWW SPONSORS POPULAR TAGS google twitter facebook iphone mobile apple android microsoft search trends social media youtube privacy music video ipad yahoo security advertising amazon firefox myspace developers apps social networks location rss chrome social networking semantic web sponsors augmented reality news blogging foursquare marketing mozilla digg email mobile web gmail api china friendfeed bing browsers wikipedia adobe data kindle RWW PARTNERS Home | Features | Trends | Best of RWW | Archives | Status ReadWriteWeb | Startups | Smal
