# De Stijl | Tate

URL: https://web.archive.org/web/20170211033009/http://www.tate.org.uk/learn/online-resources/glossary/d/de-stijl
Source: web.archive.org
Fetched: 20260603-203442
Cycle: 10
Quality: 1.00
Language: en
On-topic: yes
Body: 6526 chars, ~1080 words

## Design signals
- top_colors: —
- fonts: About This, Abstract Art, Abstract Painting, And How, And More, Archive The, Brief History, First Major, First Time, Friedrich Vordemberge, Further Reading, Georges Vantongerloo, Gerrit Rietveld, Glossary Terms, His Life, His Work, Internet Archive, Internet Archive These, Jan FEB Mar, Main Content, Marlow Moss, Modern Architecture, Piet Mondrian, TIMESTAMPS The Wayback, Tate Modern, The Architects, The Artist, The Grid, The Group, The History, The Internet, The Language, The Magazine, The Real, The Room, The Sound, The Wayback Machine, The Web, Theo Van, This Article, Van Doesburg, Wayback Machine
- designers_mentioned: Spin
- gradients: 0

## Body

De Stijl | Tate 81 captures 02 May 2014 - 11 Dec 2025 Jan FEB Mar 11 2016 2017 2018 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Organization: Internet Archive These crawls are part of an effort to archive pages as they are created and archive the pages that they refer to. That way, as the pages that are referenced are changed or taken from the web, a link to the version that was live when the page was written will be preserved. Then the Internet Archive hopes that references to these archived pages will be put in place of a link that would be otherwise be broken, or a companion link to allow people to see what was originally intended by a page's authors. The goal is to fix all broken links on the web. Crawls of supported "No More 404" sites. Collection: GDELT A daily crawl of more than 200,000 home pages of news sites, including the pages linked from those home pages. Site list provided by The GDELT Project TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20170211033009/http://www.tate.org.uk/learn/online-resources/glossary/d/de-stijl Skip to main content De Stijl was a circle of Dutch abstract artists who promoted a style of art based on a strict geometry of horizontals and verticals Introduction to De Stijl De Stijl artists in focus De Stijl in detail 1 of 4 Friedrich Vordemberge-Gildewart Composition No. 15 1925 Oil on canvas support: 1499 x 1251 mm frame: 1541 x 1290 x 48 mm Purchased 1971© The estate of Friederich Vordemberge-Gildewart View the main page for this artwork Georges Vantongerloo Interrelation of Volumes 1919 Sandstone object: 225 x 137 x 137 mm Purchased 1978© DACS, 2002 View the main page for this artwork Georges Vantongerloo No. 98 2478 Red/135 Green 1936 Oil on wood support: 575 x 568 mm frame: 814 x 959 x 65 mm Purchased 1972© DACS, 2002 View the main page for this artwork Bart van der Leck Composition 1918 Oil on canvas support: 543 x 425 mm frame: 739 x 632 x 60 mm Purchased 1966© DACS, 2002 View the main page for this artwork Introduction to De Stijl Originally a publication, De Stijl was founded in 1917 by two pioneers of abstract art, Piet Mondrian and Theo van Doesburg. De Stijl means style in Dutch. The magazine De Stijl became a vehicle for Mondrian’s ideas on art, and in a series of articles in the first year’s issues he defined his aims and used, perhaps for the first time, the term neo-plasticism. This became the name for the type of abstract art he and the De Stijl circle practised. Other members of the group included Bart van der Leck, Vantongerloo and Vordemberge-Gildewart, as well as the architects Gerrit Rietveld and JJP Oud. Mondrian withdrew from De Stijl in 1923 following Van Doesburg’s adoption of diagonal elements in his work. Van Doesburg continued the publication until 1931. De Stijl had a profound influence on the development both of abstract art and modern architecture and design. Further reading A brief history of abstract art with Turner, Mondrian and more Read our feature which gives quick tour through the history of abstract art and Mondrian’s place within it. De Stijl artists in focus Theo van Doesburg Chief spokesman of the De Stijl group, he wanted to establish a visual vocabulary comprised of elementary geometrical forms comprehensible by all and adaptable to any discipline. Theo van Doesburg Counter-Composition VI 1925 Oil on canvas support: 500 x 500 mm frame: 690 x 691 x 80 mm Purchased 1982 View the main page for this artwork Artist biography Read Tate’s biography on Theo Van Doesburg. Van Doesburg and the International Avant-Garde This exhibiiton which was at Tate Modern at 2010 presented the first major exhibition in the UK devoted to the Dutch artist and pivotal figure of the European avant-garde. Read the room guide and see what artworks were on display. Avant-garde apostle This article takes a chronological look at Van Doesburg and how he played a key role in the international exchange of ideas of the early twentieth-century avant-garde. Piet Mondrian Mondrian painted only in horizontal and vertical lines with a restricted colour palette of primary colours. His felt that his non-representational, geometric works reflected a greater, universal truth beyond everyday appearance. Mondrian developed the language of abstract painting as we know it today. Curator Michael White Curator Michael White discusses how Mondrian hoped his paintings and, by extension his studios, would not only create dynamic spatial relationships but even point to a new way of living. Recreating Mondrian’s Paris studio at Tate Liverpool Architect Frans Postman discusses why he recreated Mondrian’s Paris studio and how it was ‘the most impressive interior of the De Stijl period.’ The Mondrian guide to life This guide looks at how De Stijl took over his life as well as his art. How to spin the colour wheel, by Turner, Malevich and more This article looks at how artists have been influenced by colour theory including Mondrian, who went back to the colour fundamentals by only using primary colours. Other perspectives The sound of Mondrian playlist Get a feel for the ’boogie-woogie’ beat of Mondrian’s paintings with our playlist. Nicholas Fox Weber on finding the real Mondrian Mondrian biographer Nicholas Fox Weber discusses what it is about the Dutch modernist painter that captures him and the reasons why the artist’s personal life has remained so elusive. De Stijl in detail Richard Hamilton Putting on de Stijl 1979 Collotype in 6 colours and screenprint from 6 stencils on Ivorex paper image: 300 x 420 mm Presented by Klaus Anschel in memory of his wife Gerty 2008© The estate of Richard Hamilton View the main page for this artwork The Grid as a Checkpoint of Modernity This essay argues that the grid can still be an effective device in radical art practices as long as it is not perceived as an escapist structure that does not address the topics of today. Marlow Moss: Space, Movement, Light Read this essay on Marlow Moss, an artist who gained recognition from Mondrian because she was augmenting his language of neoplasticism. Moss was invited to join Abstraction-Création as a founder member along with Mondrian, Vantongerloo and Theo van Doesburg. Abstraction and Interpretation Study Day video recordings This study day focuses on the interpretation of abstract art,from de stijl and Russian suprematism to minimalism and beyond. Related glossary terms Neo-plasticism, modernism, Abstraction-Création, concrete art, cubism, abstract art, Cercle et Carré, non-objective art
