# Is there a Web 1.0? | HowStuffWorks

URL: https://web.archive.org/web/20190222191357/https://computer.howstuffworks.com/web-10.htm
Source: web.archive.org
Fetched: 20260603-230634
Cycle: 13
Quality: 0.92
Language: en
On-topic: yes
Body: 5739 chars, ~959 words

## Design signals
- top_colors: —
- fonts: About This, Archive Team, Archive Team Formed, But What, Dale Dougherty, Facebook Blogs, Image Gallery, Internet Archive, Jan FEB Mar, Next Page, OvEr ThE, Panic Downloads, Reilly Media, Source Code, THE USE, TIMESTAMPS The Wayback, The Archive, The Archive Team, The Conversation, The Data, The Future, The Group, The Internet, The Number, The Problem, The Use, The Wayback Machine, The Web, The World, The World Wide, This Article, Travel The, Wayback Machine, Web Sites, What Does, Whether Web, Wide Web, World Wide Web
- designers_mentioned: —
- gradients: 0

## Body

Is there a Web 1.0? | HowStuffWorks 194 captures 10 Feb 2008 - 19 May 2026 Jan FEB Mar 22 2018 2019 2020 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Organization: Archive Team Formed in 2009, the Archive Team (not to be confused with the archive.org Archive-It Team) is a rogue archivist collective dedicated to saving copies of rapidly dying or deleted websites for the sake of history and digital heritage. The group is 100% composed of volunteers and interested parties, and has expanded into a large amount of related projects for saving online and digital history. History is littered with hundreds of conflicts over the future of a community, group, location or business that were "resolved" when one of the parties stepped ahead and destroyed what was there. With the original point of contention destroyed, the debates would fall to the wayside. Archive Team believes that by duplicated condemned data, the conversation and debate can continue, as well as the richness and insight gained by keeping the materials. Our projects have ranged in size from a single volunteer downloading the data to a small-but-critical site, to over 100 volunteers stepping forward to acquire terabytes of user-created data to save for future generations. The main site for Archive Team is at archiveteam.org and contains up to the date information on various projects, manifestos, plans and walkthroughs. This collection contains the output of many Archive Team projects, both ongoing and completed. Thanks to the generous providing of disk space by the Internet Archive, multi-terabyte datasets can be made available, as well as in use by the Wayback Machine, providing a path back to lost websites and work. Our collection has grown to the point of having sub-collections for the type of data we acquire. If you are seeking to browse the contents of these collections, the Wayback Machine is the best first stop. Otherwise, you are free to dig into the stacks to see what you may find. The Archive Team Panic Downloads are full pulldowns of currently extant websites, meant to serve as emergency backups for needed sites that are in danger of closing, or which will be missed dearly if suddenly lost due to hard drive crashes or server failures. Collection: ArchiveBot: The Archive Team Crowdsourced Crawler ArchiveBot is an IRC bot designed to automate the archival of smaller websites (e.g. up to a few hundred thousand URLs). You give it a URL to start at, and it grabs all content under that URL, records it in a WARC, and then uploads that WARC to ArchiveTeam servers for eventual injection into the Internet Archive (or other archive sites). To use ArchiveBot, drop by #archivebot on EFNet. To interact with ArchiveBot, you issue commands by typing it into the channel. Note you will need channel operator permissions in order to issue archiving jobs. The dashboard shows the sites being downloaded currently. There is a dashboard running for the archivebot process at http://www.archivebot.com. ArchiveBot's source code can be found at https://github.com/ArchiveTeam/ArchiveBot. TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20190222191357/https://computer.howstuffworks.com/web-10.htm HowStuffWorks Tech Computer Internet Web Design & Development Is there a Web 1.0? by Jonathan Strickland NEXT PAGE Marshall Brain's personal Web page belongs in the Web 1.0 category, but his blog has more Web 2.0 features. But what does this mean, exactly? See more images of Web pages. Screenshot by HowStuffWorks 2008 When Dale Dougherty of O'Reilly Media coined the term "Web 2.0," he probably didn't know he was stirring up a hornets' nest. He was trying to come up with a catchy name for an Internet conference focused on the most effective ways to use the Web. The term caught on, and some people began to use it beyond its original purpose. Ever since the phrase "Web 2.0" gained traction, people have debated its definition. More than a few Internet experts question whether Web 2.0 even has a meaning at all. Web Page Image Gallery Tim O'Reilly, founder and CEO of O'Reilly Media, took a stab at defining Web 2.0 more than a year after the first Web 2.0 Conference. He posted an explanation on his blog that spanned five pages of text and used a lot of marketing terms and jargon. Some people might find O'Reilly's explanation more confusing than helpful, but his main point was that Web 2.0 refers to people making connections with other people through the Web, as they do on these Web sites: Social networking sites, like MySpace or Facebook Blogs and micro-blogs, like LiveJournal or Twitter Sites that allow users to contribute content, like wikis Sites that let users share content, like YouTube ­But defining Web 2.0 was only half of the problem. The other half had to do with the use of "2.0." The number suggested that this was a new version of the World Wide Web. If Web 2.0 was real, what was Web 1.0? Were there still Web pages on the Internet that fell into the Web 1.0 classification? If you search the Web, you'll find no shortage of answers to these questions. Unfortunately, there's no agreement on the answers. We can understand what Web 1.0 is only if we assume that there's a Web 2.0. In this article, we'll use O'Reilly's definition of Web 2.0 to figure out what Web 1.0 means. In the next section, we'll look at the definitive explanation for Web 1.0. 1 2 3 NEXT Print | Citation & Date | Reprint Print | Citation & Date | Reprint More to Explore Quizzes Travel the World: 50 States Quiz 'Everyone Says It So It Must Be True': The Pseudoscience Quiz The Words We All Misuse Quiz Can You Name These Famous Baseball Players From Just One Image? Internet 101 Internet Quiz How did the Internet start? Recommended
