# Web 2.0 - Wikiversity

URL: https://en.wikiversity.org/wiki/Web_2.0
Source: en.wikiversity.org
Fetched: 20260603-230029
Cycle: 13
Quality: 1.00
Language: en
On-topic: yes
Body: 28952 chars, ~4469 words

## Design signals
- top_colors: —
- fonts: ALL TIMES, About The, Add The, Adobe Dreamweaver, Adobe Photoshop, And More, And That, Around The World, Ars Technica, Computer Networks, Computer Technology, Creative Commons, Digital Media, Digital Video, Early Years, Even When, Free Software, From Scratch, Good For, Google Buzz, Here You, Information Science, Information Technology, Intellectual Property, Internet Archive, Key Elements, Learn How, Learning Resources, More Likely, NEW YORK, New Era, News Feed, Online Communities, Personal Computer, Pew Research Center, RSS Feed, Research Center, See Also, See Wikipedia, Social Media, Social Networks, Some Web, Stay Connected, THE FORM, THE INTERNET AND, The Archive, The Century, The Content, The Early Years, The Evolution, The Form, The Future, The Idea, The Internet, The Landscape, The Mobile, The Nature, The Past, The Role, The Study, The Web, The World, The World Wide, The Writer, They Want, User Interfaces, Video About, Watch The, Web Content, Wide Web, Wikimedia Foundation, With Digital, World Wide Web, You Can, You Need, You Want
- designers_mentioned: Apple
- gradients: 0

## Body

Web 2.0 - Wikiversity Jump to content From Wikiversity Click here to watch the video about Web 2.0 and copyleft media (Help with Ogg video file play). This video explores Web 2.0 and copyleft licensing of media files. the video. 4 minutes 24 seconds play time, 7.73 MB file size. Welcome to the Wikiversity learning project Web 2.0. Participants explore tools for accessing, evaluating, transforming and creating internet content, including media such as digital audio and video, while actively participating in multiple course-related social networks. Expectations[edit | edit source] Web 2.0 is, by design, immersive, interactive, and collaborative. This course is based on experiential learning. In other words, to really increase your knowledge regarding Web 2.0, you must personally use and utilize Web 2.0 tools and services. This holds true whether you are interested in self-paced independent study or using this course as a guide to teach others. It is essential that you stay active and contribute to online communities and knowledge, and reflect on your experiences. Start a blog, Wordpress, Facebook page, or similar forum that can contain your personal reflection. As you go through the course, try to write a reflective post on each new thing that you learn. What is Web 2.0?[edit | edit source] Key elements and connectivity of Web 1.0. Click image to enlarge. The early internet was characterized by slow internet connectivity (dialup) and few content creation opportunities for most internet users (content consumers). During the 1990s, the World Wide Web provided a way for people to use a network of computers to efficiently exchange files. In general, content for the Web was created by a relatively small group of individuals or small "content development groups." Once created, the content (HTML pages and media files) was uploaded to servers and then downloaded by "content consumers" who used a web browser to display webpages. The average person was not involved with creation of Web content. This period of time is now referred to as Web 1.0. The evolution of the Web has led to what is called "Web 2.0". What is new about Web 2.0 is the gradual and continuing increase in technologies that allow more people to participate in Web content creation. These facilitating technologies include advances at the level of the computer hardware available to most people and at the level of software that makes it easier for people to create Web content. "Web 2.0 is both a usage and a technology paradigm. It is a collection of technologies, business strategies, and social trends. Web 2.0 is more dynamic and interactive than its predecessor, Web 1.0, letting users access content from a Web site and contribute to the contents of that Web site. Web 2.0 enables users to keep up with a site's most recent content edits even without visiting the actual Web page. It also lets developers create new Web applications that draw on data, information or services available on the Internet to more precisely manufacture their programs to fit their desired demographic."[1] Web 2.0 is an umbrella term encompassing several new Web technologies. These technologies will be outlined later. "It harnesses the Web in a more interactive and collaborative manner, emphasizing peers' social interaction and collective intelligence, and presents new opportunities for leveraging the Web and engaging its users more effectively." Objectives[edit | edit source] *Define Web 2.0. Where Web 2.0 started and understand the direction it is going. Discover new Web 2.0 tools and applications, and apply them to daily lives and jobs. Explore and contribute to a variety of online communities, including adding content, posting comments, correcting false information, and learning how to be collaborative. Anticipate future web trends: Web 3.0? Web 4.0? Web 10-million-point-oh? Contribute knowledge gained using Web 2.0 tools in professional/personal lives. Learn how others are using Web 2.0 tools and weigh pros/cons. Learn how to troubleshoot hardware/software issues. Become familiar with leading tools in specific categories. Become aware of ethics and privacy in Web 2.0 and its applications. Understand Web 2.0 and be able to educate others on the topic. Develop discipline in approaching the complexities of multiple tasks, time lines, tools, logins, URLs in an unstructured environment. Hardware[edit | edit source] During the past 15 years, increasing numbers of people have obtained access to computer technology and the Internet. Internet data traffic passed voice data traffic at about the turn of the century and Web traffic now greatly surpasses voice data transfer[2]. At about the same time, home internet access reached about 50% of homes in the USA. In this century, use of high-speed internet connections has increased rapidly with over 50 million U.S. residential broadband connections achieved in 2006. The emergence of smartphone technology is still changing the landscape of access to the Web, as people can easily carry Internet ready devices with them at all times. A recent survey shows a 15% increase in Smartphone sales than the previous year. Smartphones compromise about 12 percent of the mobile phone market, a number that is only expected to increase in coming years.[3] The 2010 Horizon Report predicts that, in the next 12 months or less, mobile computing will enter into mainstream use for teaching, learning, or creative inquiry. Devices from smart phones to netbooks are portable tools for productivity, learning, and communication, offering an increasing range of activities fully supported by applications designed especially for mobiles. A 2012 study by Edison Research and Arbitron found that there was a 50% increase in smartphone ownership from 2011 to 2012 and that about 50% of cell phone owners own a smartphone. Smartphone owners are more likely to access social networking sites and public domains like youtube at least 5X a day from their phones. 60% of smartphone owners report that they keep their phone at an arms lengths away at all times. Smartphone users spend almost the same amount of time on their smartphones as they do watching tv. The smartphone has enabled users to be connected and using web 2.0 applications on the go. This number will only grow as well all become connected with mobile phones, computers and tablets. [4] The study also reported that 3 in 10 smartphone owners own a tablet. Tablets have the capability to browse the internet, create and share presentations, videos conference with clients, stay connected with corporate email, download books, games and videos, watch movies, share photos and much more. [5] As of January 2014, Pew Research Center reports that: 90% of American adults have a cell phone 58% of American adults have a smartphone 32% of American adults own an e-reader 42% of American adults own a tablet computer[4] Software[edit | edit source] Web 2.0 is characterized by software that supports easy Web content creation in the form of blogs, wikis, digital media uploading websites, and new types of online social networking websites. Software advances make it easier for more people to participate as Web content creators. Websites where users are participants in Web content creation have brought an increasingly robust social nature to Web 2.0 that has built upon the spirit of simpler online communities that formed in the first decade of the World Wide Web. Another important trend influencing Web 2.0 is an increase in options for openness in the creation of software and the growing phenomenon of the Free Culture Movement. Early software allowing computer network users to add content to servers[edit | edit source] The first widely used type of software that allowed computer users to upload files to servers was software that allowed users to make use of computer programming languages running on mainframe computers. One of the first types of nonprogramming-related software that allowed users of 
