# So Long, GeoCities: We Forgot You Still Existed | PCWorld

URL: https://web.archive.org/web/20141017090359/http://www.pcworld.com/article/163765/So_Long_GeoCities_We_Forgot_You_Still_Existed.html
Source: web.archive.org
Fetched: 20260603-230546
Cycle: 13
Quality: 0.98
Language: en
On-topic: yes
Body: 7013 chars, ~1102 words

## Design signals
- top_colors: —
- fonts: About This, Archive The, Beverly Hills, Email Address, Facebook Share, First Look, For You, Forgot You Still, Internet Archive, Internet Archive These, Its Life, Later Years, Learn More, Learn More About, LinkedIn Share, Nexus Player, Operating Systems, OvEr ThE, Privacy Policy, READ MORE, Read More, Read The, Real World, Sep OCT Nov, Silicon Valley, TIMESTAMPS The Wayback, Thank You, The Company, The Idea, The Internet, The Medical, The Mid, The New, The Past, The Real, The Real World, The San Francisco, The User, The Wayback Machine, The Web, Twitter Share, View More, Wayback Machine, Web Services, Wikipedia Articles, Wikipedia Near Real, Wikipedia Pages, Your Phone
- designers_mentioned: Apple
- gradients: 0

## Body

So Long, GeoCities: We Forgot You Still Existed | PCWorld 254 captures 26 Apr 2009 - 07 Mar 2026 Sep OCT Nov 17 2013 2014 2015 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Organization: Internet Archive These crawls are part of an effort to archive pages as they are created and archive the pages that they refer to. That way, as the pages that are referenced are changed or taken from the web, a link to the version that was live when the page was written will be preserved. Then the Internet Archive hopes that references to these archived pages will be put in place of a link that would be otherwise be broken, or a companion link to allow people to see what was originally intended by a page's authors. The goal is to fix all broken links on the web. Crawls of supported "No More 404" sites. Collection: Wikipedia Near Real Time (from IRC) This is a collection of web page captures from links added to, or changed on, Wikipedia pages. The idea is to bring a reliability to Wikipedia outlinks so that if the pages referenced by Wikipedia articles are changed, or go away, a reader can permanently find what was originally referred to. This is part of the Internet Archive's attempt to rid the web of broken links. TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20141017090359/http://www.pcworld.com/article/163765/So_Long_GeoCities_We_Forgot_You_Still_Existed.html Subscribe ▲ Learn more about PCWorld's Digital Editions ▲ Share on Facebook Follow @PCWorld Share on Google+    News Reviews How-To Video Business Laptops Tablets Phones Hardware Security Software Gadgets Subscribe Resources Desktops Phones Printers Ultrabooks Blogs Antivirus software Cameras Components Computer accessories Consumer advice Displays E-Readers Flash drives Graphics cards Hard drives Home theater Input devices Keyboards Laptop accessories Mobile Networking Operating Systems Optical drives Processors Servers Streaming services Storage Tablets Windows 8 Web & communication software Social networking software , Productivity , Software , industry, Internet, Yahoo, CES, Web Services So Long, GeoCities: We Forgot You Still Existed GeoCities, a free Web hosting service that achieved fame in the mid-90s, died Thursday at the Yahoo headquarters in Silicon Valley. GeoCities was 15 years old. GeoCities had suffered a long and drawn-out battle with its health over the past decade. An antiquated service model and outdated technology are widely blamed for the struggle. An official cause of death, however, has yet to be determined. GeoCities: 1995 - 2009 GeoCities was born as "Beverly Hills Internet" in the winter of 1995. Its parents, David Bohnett and John Rezner, wanted to create a virtual community that mimicked the real world, with pages hosted in "cyber cities" and other similarly nauseating concepts. Both teenagers and first-generation Internet dorks (known then as "former SysOps") flocked to the service, setting up personal pages in the "cyber cities" of their choice. Despite GeoCities' built-in watermarks and on-page advertisements, the site's popularity continued to climb, and the shame its users should have felt for creating abhorrent content within its servers continued to remain repressed (see: "A1PYRO'S WORLD"). The 'Portal Page' Era As GeoCities matured, it decided to spread its wings and leap into the then-blossoming business of "portal pages," joining such companies as Excite, Lycos, AltaVista, and HotBot (all of which are now listed as being on life support at a San Francisco area assisted-living facility). Standing proud, GeoCities reorganized itself with even more "cyber neighborhoods" that featured news, chat rooms, and polls in which users could express their opinions via multiple-choice forms. Perhaps most notably, shortly before its third birthday, GeoCities expanded its storage offering from 6MB to an almost-doubled 11MB -- nearly eight entire floppy disks worth of data. GeoCities' Later Years One year later, in 1999, GeoCities underwent its largest transformation when the yet-to-become-a-punchline company Yahoo purchased it for $4.7 billion. Yahoo removed many of GeoCities' trademark assets, including the "cyber city" foundation of the service, and attempted to transform GeoCities into a profit-producing venture. It was around this time that GeoCities began showing the first symptoms of the medical issues that would plague it for the remainder of its life. GeoCities grew weaker by the month. The proliferation of low-cost hosting options, combined with the increasing popularity of social network-style services in place of personal home pages, only contributed to its demise. GeoCities is survived by two cousins, Angelfire and Tripod, along with an uncle, Jeeves. All three are believed to be terminally ill. Of the 12 remaining GeoCities users, only one was available for comment. "Holy crap!" said the user, a red-faced fellow named Strong Bad. "The scroll buttons and animated GIFs on that site were unbeatable." The GeoCities site is expected to remain functional through midyear as a tribute to its life. Funeral arrangements are now pending. Connect with JR Raphael on Twitter (@jr_raphael) or via his Web site, jrstart.com. Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Google+ Share on LinkedIn Share on Pinterest By JR Raphael, PCWorld Apr 23, 2009 2:41 PM e-mail print recommended for you From Netscape to Napster: Whatever happened to yesterday's... Read more » Subscribe to the Daily Downloads Newsletter Comments close Thank you for sharing this page. Sorry! There was an error emailing this page Latest Videos Microsoft blends the old and new with Windows 10 Damaged Lithium Ion battery explodes Inside Levi’s Stadium, high-tech home of the San Francisco 49ers 2014 Toyota Highlander Hybrid: All the car tech a busy family needs to stay safe View more PCWorld videos » Close Microsoft blends the old and new with Windows 10 Sep 30, 2014 3:40 PM Microsoft unveiled a major update to its operating system, called Windows 10. The company did a lot to make Windows 10 feel familiar to people who are used to running older, Win32 style apps. We got a first look at some of the new features. READ THE RELATED ARTICLE:< Microsoft blends the old and new with Windows 10 Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Google+ Share on LinkedIn Share on Pinterest Top Android stories from our new site, Greenbot Here's how Google's Nexus 9 stacks up against Apple's iPad... Get your phone into the holiday spirit with these great... The 6 best features of Google’s new Nexus 6 Google's Nexus Player thrusts new Android TV platform into... Popular Resources Video/Webcast Sponsored How Marketers Use Box Video/Webcast Sponsored 5 Strategies for Building Effective Mobile Engagement See All Subscribe to the Daily Downloads Newsletter By submitting your email address you are consenting to receive email notifications from IDG. You may withdraw your consent at any time. Please refer to our privacy policy for more information. See All Newsletters »
