# Functional organization for color and orientation in macaque V4 - PMC

URL: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3005205
Source: www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov
Fetched: 20260604-003525
Cycle: 16
Quality: 1.00
Language: en
On-topic: yes
Body: 44278 chars, ~6517 words

## Design signals
- top_colors: —
- fonts: ACTIONS View, AMA APA MLA, About The, Associated Data This, Author Contributions, Circular, Find Articles, First Time, From One, Google Scholar, Guide PERMALINK, Journal List User, Large Size, Learn More, Left The, Lock Locked, Main Content, NLM Add, National Institutes, Nature Neuroscience, Opt Soc, OvEr ThE, PERMALINK RESOURCES Cite, PMC Copyright, PMC Copyright Notice, PMC Disclaimer, PMC Skip, Research Center, Technical Assistance, The CIE, The Center, The Color, The Content, The Data, The Distribution, The Doors, The Idea, The Key, The Map, The National, The Nature, The Red, The Role, The Two, The United States, The Visual, This Article, University Center, Vanderbilt University, Vision Research, Visual Perception
- designers_mentioned: Collins, Linear, Portion, Stripe
- gradients: 0

## Body

Functional organization for color and orientation in macaque V4 - PMC Skip to main content Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( Lock Locked padlock icon ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. Journal List User Guide PERMALINK As a library, NLM provides access to scientific literature. Inclusion in an NLM database does not imply endorsement of, or agreement with, the contents by NLM or the National Institutes of Health. Learn more: PMC Disclaimer | PMC Copyright Notice . Author manuscript; available in PMC: 2011 Jun 1. Published in final edited form as: Nat Neurosci. 2010 Nov 14;13(12):1542–1548. doi: 10.1038/nn.2676 Functional organization for color and orientation in macaque V4 Hisashi Tanigawa Hisashi Tanigawa 1 Department of Psychology, Vanderbilt University, 301 Wilson Hall, 111 21st Ave South, Nashville, TN 37240, USA Find articles by Hisashi Tanigawa 1, Haidong D Lu Haidong D Lu 1 Department of Psychology, Vanderbilt University, 301 Wilson Hall, 111 21st Ave South, Nashville, TN 37240, USA Find articles by Haidong D Lu 1,2, Anna W Roe Anna W Roe 1 Department of Psychology, Vanderbilt University, 301 Wilson Hall, 111 21st Ave South, Nashville, TN 37240, USA Find articles by Anna W Roe 1 1 Department of Psychology, Vanderbilt University, 301 Wilson Hall, 111 21st Ave South, Nashville, TN 37240, USA ✉ Correspondence should be addressed to A.W.R (anna.w.roe@vanderbilt.edu) 2 Present address: Institute of Neuroscience, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 320 Yue-Yang Road, Shanghai 200031, China. Issue date 2010 Dec. Users may view, print, copy, download and text and data- mine the content in such documents, for the purposes of academic research, subject always to the full Conditions of use: http://www.nature.com/authors/editorial_policies/license.html#terms PMC Copyright notice PMCID: PMC3005205 NIHMSID: NIHMS240935 PMID: 21076422 The publisher's version of this article is available at Nat Neurosci Abstract Visual area V4 in the macaque monkey is a cortical area strongly involved in shape and color perception. However, fundamental questions about V4 are still debated. V4 was initially characterized as a color processing area but subsequent studies revealed that it contains a diverse complement of cells, including those with preference for color, orientation, disparity, as well as higher order feature preferences. This has led to disputes and uncertainty about the role of V4 in vision. In this study, using intrinsic signal optical imaging methods in awake, behaving monkeys, we demonstrate functional organization for different feature preferences within V4. Optical images reveal that regions with preferential response to color or luminance are largely separate from orientation selective regions. These results help resolve long-standing controversies regarding functional diversity and retinotopy within V4 and indicate the presence of spatially biased distribution of featural representation in V4 in the ventral visual pathway. Neurophysiological and neuroanatomical evidence from the macaque monkey suggest that the cortical representation of different visual attributes, such as color (hue and luminance) and shape (contour orientation) features of visual objects, are preferentially localized in different compartments within early visual cortical areas (such as blobs and interblobs in the primary visual area (V1) and thick, thin stripes and interstripes in the secondary visual area V2)1,2. While this has led to a concept of functionally segregated streams in these early visual areas, there is also substantial evidence for merging and interaction between these streams3–5. Whether representation of these visual features remains localized in higher cortical areas is unknown. Visual area V4 in the macaque monkey is a mid-tier cortical area in the ventral object-processing pathway, strongly involved in color and shape perception. Given the prevalence of neurons selective for color, it was initially characterized it as a color processing area6. However, subsequent studies revealed that V4 contains not only color-selective cells, but also many cells selective for other features, including orientation7–9. However, no studies to date have addressed the organization of both orientation and color preference in V410. To study the functional organization in V4 and address whether color and orientation representations are still localized to some degree in higher order areas, we examined the mapping of color/luminance and orientation preference in V4 of awake monkeys with optical imaging techniques. Existence of featural segregation in V4 would have significant implications for studies on the role of V4 in visual perception and feature-based attention11. RESULTS We used intrinsic signal optical imaging to reveal feature preference maps for orientation and color in dorsal V4 of macaque monkeys performing a fixation task. Imaging fields of view included a portion of V4 representing the central visual field (< 7° eccentricity) and, in some cases, a portion of V2 along the lunate sulcus. Reflectance images under 632 nm illumination were acquired during presentation of grating patches: isoluminant red/green (RG) or achromatic luminance contrast (Lum), tilted 45° or 135° from the horizontal. The stimulus-evoked reflectance change from the pre-stimulus period was calculated pixel-by-pixel. The maps of reflectance change were spatially high-pass filtered to remove low-spatial-frequency gradients, averaged across presentations in each stimulus condition, and subtracted by the map obtained in the ‘blank (no stimulus)’ condition to form single condition maps (blank subtraction, see Methods). Typically, signal amplitudes in single condition maps increased over the 3 second time course after the stimulus onset with peak magnitudes around −0.05 ~ −0.1% (Fig. 1, note that a negative reflectance change indicates signal), consistent with previous optical imaging studies12,13. Most sites exhibited some response to each stimulus. However, the signal intensity differed from site to site depending on stimulus condition (Fig. 1a). Some sites exhibited a larger change to either RG (Fig. 1b) or Lum (Fig. 1c) stimuli and no orientation preference, while other sites were orientation selective (Fig. 1d,e) regardless of grating color type (RG or Lum). Sites with selectivity for a particular combination of orientations and color types were also observed (Fig. 1f). Figure 1. Examples of time course of stimulus-evoked reflectance change in V4. Open in a new tab (a) Sampled sites indicated by black crosses on an image of exposed V4 cortical surface taken under 570 nm illumination. Scale bar, 1 mm. (b-f) Time courses of average reflectance change (ΔR/R) under 632 nm illumination at the sampled sites (160 μm in diameter) in response to a stimulus patch containing one of four gratings (red: 45° RG, orange: 135° RG, blue: 45° Lum, blue: 135° Lum; see Methods for details). The response values were taken from the single condition map, in which high-pass filtering and blank subtraction were applied. Error bars represent SEM. To reveal the spatial distribution of sensitivity to differences in stimulus features in foveal V4, we calculated difference maps between the single condition maps in two imaging cases (Fig. 2a: case 1, ~0.75° eccentricity, Fig. 2b: case 3, ~1.5° eccentricity). In one case, the difference map of RG minus Lum stimulus conditions showed several dark spots alternating with light spots along and anterior to the lunate sulcus (Fig. 2c, magenta arrowheads), indicating clusters of pixels with greater response to either RG (dark pixels) or Lum (light pixels). Using the same data set, the difference map of 45° minus 135° stimulus conditions revealed a different set of dark and light spots, most of whic
