# storybreak stars<\/title><path d="M5.146 9.01l-.19-3.623 3.057 1.985.693-1.197-3.213-1.67 3.213-1.638-.693-1.197-3.056 1.953L5.147 0H3.76l.158 3.623L.893 1.67.2 2.867l3.214 1.638L.2 6.175l.693 1.197 3

URL: https://web.archive.org/web/20190619235512/https://earther.gizmodo.com/this-climate-visualization-belongs-in-a-damn-museum-1826307536
Source: web.archive.org
Fetched: 20260603-234614
Cycle: 14
Quality: 0.92
Language: en
On-topic: yes
Body: 4272 chars, ~677 words

## Design signals
- top_colors: —
- fonts: ABOUT THE AUTHOR, About The, About This, Any Place, Barnett Newman, Change Visualization, Check Out, Check Out More, Climate Change, Cold War, Color Field, Damn Museum, Ever Seen, His Work, Internet Archive, Internet Archive Focused, May JUN Jul, Met Office, Modern Art, Now Customizable, Our Future, Our Time, Share This, Share This Story, TIMESTAMPS The Wayback, The Artists, The Author, The Long, The Movement, The Museum, The Red, The Theory, The Time, The Wayback Machine, Thinking About, This Striking Climate, This Year, Visual System, Wayback Machine, You Can
- designers_mentioned: Stripe
- gradients: 0

## Body

This Climate Visualization Belongs in a Damn Museum 36 captures 13 Dec 2018 - 03 Mar 2026 May JUN Jul 19 2018 2019 2020 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Organization: Internet Archive Focused crawls are collections of frequently-updated webcrawl data from narrow (as opposed to broad or wide) web crawls, often focused on a single domain or subdomain. Collection: msn.com TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20190619235512/https://earther.gizmodo.com/this-climate-visualization-belongs-in-a-damn-museum-1826307536 Our warming world in stripe form.Image: Ed Hawkins There’s a new global warming illustration that’s fit for the Museum of Modern Art or the Getty. Seriously, just look at that stunner up there. Ed Hawkins, the climate scientist who made the viral temperature spirals, is back at it again with another striking view of our warming planet. His latest visualization strips out all unnecessary information save color to communicate how we’re changing the temperature of the Earth. Advertisement Plot the global average temperature on a line graph and it goes up over time. Easy enough to read, sure, but not a format that really conveys how weirdly warm we’re making the planet. In an effort to demonstrate that more clearly, Hawkins decided to represent each year of U.K. Met Office data from 1850-2017 as a bold stripes of color ranging from blue (cold) to red (hot). The resulting graphic leaves little doubt about what’s going on, with blue dropping out of the equation and the red hot nature of global warming emerging clearly by the time your gaze sweeps to the right of the image. Advertisement “I wanted to communicate temperature changes in a way that was simple and intuitive, removing all the distractions of standard climate graphics so that the long-term trends and variations in temperature are crystal clear,” Hawkins told Earther. “Our visual system will do the interpretation of the stripes without us even thinking about it.” The illustration evokes a style of painting known as color field painting that rose to prominence in the middle of the 20th century. The theory underlying the movement was the same as Hawkins’ goal: to strip out all outside information and distractions and use color alone to immediately convey meaning. Barnett Newman, one of the artists who pioneered the field, explained his work this way (emphasis added): “We are creating images whose reality is self-evident and which are devoid of the props and crutches that evoke associations with outmoded images, both sublime and beautiful...The image we produce is the self-evident one of revelation, real and concrete, that can be understood by anyone who will look at it without the nostalgic glasses of history.” Advertisement Hawkins’ work takes this ethos and applies it to the most pressing problem of our time. And if you can’t see what the hell is happening to the planet after looking at it, then I’m not sure what will convey it to you. Check out more of Hawkins’ “warming stripes” for a view of local global warming in Toronto, the U.S. and central England. Advertisement Share This Story Earth Art Incredible Art Exhibit Turns Flint's Water Crisis Into Sustainable Fashion This Beautiful Watercolor Painting Contains a Dark Climate Message If Trees Could Talk, They’d Probably Tell Us to Eat Shit An Art Installation in the Massachusetts Woods Sheds Light on the Hemlock's Dying Days Avengers: Infinity War Shows a Dark Side of Environmentalism Please Don't Do This About the author Brian Kahn Brian Kahn Senior reporter, Earther EmailTwitterPosts Earther This Striking Climate Change Visualization Is Now Customizable for Any Place on Earth Brian Kahn Monday 1:15pm Earther New Climate Change Visualization Presents Two Stark Choices For Our Future Brian Kahn 3/20/19 4:30pm Gizmodo One of the Most Convincing Climate Change Visualizations We've Ever Seen Ria Misra 5/10/16 12:18pm 561 Cold War Spy Satellite Reveals Just How Fast the Himalayas Are Losing Ice Brian Kahn Today 3:00pm 37 3.8K Canada's Climate Emergency Declaration Is Just Empty Words Brian Kahn Today 11:30am 25 19.7K Why Is It Raining so Much This Year? Brian Kahn Yesterday 4:35pm ShareTweet Kinja is in read-only mode. We are working to restore service.
