# i-Technology Viewpoint: It&#039;s Time to Take the Quotation Marks Off &quot;Web 2.0&quot; | Web 2.0 Journal

URL: https://web.archive.org/web/20110216062850/http://web2.sys-con.com/node/207411
Source: web.archive.org
Fetched: 20260603-231220
Cycle: 13
Quality: 1.00
Language: en
On-topic: yes
Body: 38642 chars, ~5992 words

## Design signals
- top_colors: —
- fonts: About The, About This, Advisory Board, Alexa Crawls Starting, Alexa Internet, All Rights Reserved, All Time, And More, Are You, Big Data, Book Review, But There, Case Studies, Check Out, Cover Model, Crawl Data, Email Address, Emerging Technology, For Mobile, Free Software, Ground Floor, Information Science, Information Technology, Intellectual Property, Internet Archive, Jan FEB Mar, Just Can, Love With, Makes Sense, Matter, May Not, Media Content, More News, NEW YORK, New Architecture, New Era, New York City, New York The, Next Generation, Not Just, Ohio State University, Open Source, Project Management, Public Data, Quality Improvement, Quotation Marks Off, READ MORE, Read More, Red Hat, Register Now, Related Stories, Semantic Web, Social Media, Software Engineering, State University, Supreme Court, THE UNIVERSITY, TIMESTAMPS The Wayback, Technology Viewpoint, That Offer, The Architecture, The Author, The Beauty, The Business, The Case, The Challenge, The Company, The Cost, The Data, The Day, The Economist, The Editor, The Face, The Future, The Game, The Hype, The Internet, The Journey, The Line, The National, The New, The Power, The Top, The Twitter, The Two, The University, The User, The Wave, The Wayback Machine, The Web, The World, They Can, Thinking About, Top Stories, Visual Communication, Wayback Machine, What Does, Who Wants, Will Not, Windows Phone, With Web, Work Every, Working With, Write For, York City, You Can, You Could, You Need, You Want
- designers_mentioned: Together
- gradients: 0

## Body

i-Technology Viewpoint: It's Time to Take the Quotation Marks Off "Web 2.0" | Web 2.0 Journal 70 captures 08 Dec 2008 - 18 Aug 2025 Jan FEB Mar 16 2010 2011 2012 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Organization: Alexa Crawls Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive. Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period. Collection: Alexa Crawls Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive. Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period. TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20110216062850/http://web2.sys-con.com:80/node/207411 Welcome! Register | Sign-in Search Home Subscribe Advertise Authors Topics Videos Events Webcasts Web 2.0: Email Alerts Newsletters Get Web 2.0: Homepage Mobile .NET | AJAX | Cloud | Eclipse | Flex | Open Web | iPhone | Java | Linux | Open Source | Oracle | PowerBuilder | Security | SOA | Virtualization | Web 2.0 Web 2.0 Authors: Maureen O'Gara, Jeremy Geelan, PR.com Newswire, Liz McMillan, Shelly Palmer Related Topics: Web 2.0 Web 2.0: Article i-Technology Viewpoint: It's Time to Take the Quotation Marks Off "Web 2.0" Why Enterprise Resistance to Web 2.0 Applications Makes Sense – and Why It Will Crumble By Dennis D. McDonald Article Rating: April 15, 2006 03:00 AM EDT Reads: 49,816 Related Print Email Feedback Add This Blog This My friend Jeremiah Owyang says it’s time to take the quotation marks off Web 2.0. I agree with him. Web 2.0 is here to stay. That doesn’t mean there’s agreement yet on what the term means. This is one of the reasons we’re hearing about “enterprise resistance” to Web 2.0 applications (more on this below). Web 2.0, after all, means different things to different people: To the programmer, it’s a set of tools and techniques that have the potential for fundamentally altering how network based applications and data are developed, managed, and delivered. For start-ups and venture capitalists, it’s an opportunity to get in on the ground floor of another “bubble.” For the corporate CIO or IT manager, it’s another set of technologies and architectures to be adopted and supported in an era of continued I.T. department budget strains. For newer or smaller companies, it’s an opportunity to acquire technical and business process infrastructure at a fraction of the cost of the investments made by older and legacy companies. For the marketing manager it’s an opportunity to “end-run” a traditionally unresponsive I.T. department. For the customer it’s an opportunity to establish and maintain relationships that are both personally fulfilling and empowering in the face of the traditional power of larger institutions. For the CEO of an established legacy industry company, it’s a threat of loss of control over customer relations. With so many perspectives, it's no wonder that it's difficult to get a clear picture. We’re dealing not only with shifting technical architectures but also with shifts in how individuals and organization use the Internet. We know that different industries adopt technology at different rates. In the case of Web 2.0, we're talking not just about changes in technology and associated business processes, but also about changes in the relationships that are built around how systems are developed and used. Reality: Things Don't Always Work My personal interest in this subject is anything but academic. As a management consultant I help companies plan and manage changes to technology and processes. With Web 2.0 the opportunity for change is massive. This change is not going to happen overnight. There’s always a risk when a new technical architecture is introduced. Part of the risk is getting components of the architecture into the hands of the users. Another is making sure those components work reliably. I was reminded of this recently when my wife called about an email she had received that contained a link to something she couldn't read: "I'm trying to show an attachment to an e-mail I got from a client but I can't. I called her to ask what to do and she told me to make sure that 'flash was turned on'. What does she mean by "flash?" I explained what "Flash" from Macromedia is and fixed her problem, but not until she had experienced a significant delay in communicating with a prospective client -- all because a popular web browser add-in wasn't properly configured. This got me to thinking about the current evangelizing that is swirling around Web 2.0, AJAX, SOA, and tools like Ruby on Rails, a web application development framework. I've been impressed with the mass of available applications that offer sophisticated functionality without requiring a "heavy client footprint." Just check out Christian Mayaud's list of Web 2.0 applications if you want to be amazed (and amused). I thought back to my wife's question. "Flash" is one of those "helper" applications that an entire industry and developer community has grown up around. It's now firmly a part of the Internet infrastructure. That wasn't always the case. As I saw with my wife's question, there are still "pockets" of users where an unknown – but simple -- configuration setting can cause the final step in a complex communication channel to fail. Parallels with Web 2.0 This got me to thinking about what has to happen each time an AJAX based application is used. Some current "mashups" might be combining widely available public data. With "enterprise" types of applications we might be talking about the over-the-web handling of valuable -- or sensitive -- personal or financial data. Reliability and stability of all parts of the server, net, and client will be critical. All will have to work together to ensure reliable two-way interaction. Is uncertainty about this reliability one of the reasons why some corporate IT managers are taking a wait-and-see attitude about "web 2.0"? My wife's temporary problem with a supposedly mature piece of the web infrastructure is probably not too unusual. There are many users out there who work day in and day out without paying special attention to extensions, helper applications, thin clients, RSS feeds, and the like. There are probably a lot of them for whom managing the vicissitudes of a commonly available component such as Flash is at best, an annoyance. In theory, the population of users like my wife might be a prime target of the Web 2.0 delivered rich functionality for remotely served applications such as are sometimes referred to as "Web Office" or Office 2.0. Technologies such as AJAX (and Flash, ActiveX, and Java, as well) help deliver near-desktop-quality functionality (some may argue with the adjective "near") without requiring the permanent installation of massive amounts of (expensively-licensed) software on the client machine. I’m sure that many corporate I.T. folks view potential simplification of the client’s configuration as A Good Thing, right? But lots of dice have to roll the right way for all parts of the channel to work every time. Sometimes problems occur, as my wife's experience attests -- and she was dealing with one of the oldest and most venerable components for delivering rich media content. (I think of issues related to this every time I switch over from Yahoo's old-but-serviceable Web Mail interface to the Yahoo! Mail Beta. I'm using the Yahoo! Mail Beta via my office DSL connection, and I always have to wait for data to load. And while I love the "drag and drop" functionality the Yahoo! Mail Beta interface provides, the hesitation of the interface grates after a while, especially when handling as much daily e-mail as I do.) Are Internet users willing to accept such performance glitches "outside the firewall" in order to gain access to an attractive interface and functionality that looks like it's running from a local client? I suspect my wife won't. She may not be a “power user,” but her 
