# Kerry William Purcell, Wim Crouwel

URL: https://web.archive.org/web/20120425141434/http://kerrywilliampurcell.tumblr.com/post/10047644883/wim-crouwel
Source: web.archive.org
Fetched: 20260603-202815
Cycle: 10
Quality: 1.00
Language: en
On-topic: yes
Body: 16212 chars, ~2689 words

## Design signals
- top_colors: —
- fonts: About Contact, About This, Abstract Painting, American System, And That, And What, Archive Latest Tweets, Archive The, Armin Hofmann, Art School, Books Essays Reviews, Commercial Art, Corporate Identity, Could Think, Design Museum, Design Studio, European Design, Eye Magazine, Fine Art, First World War, From Wikipedia, GRAPHIC Design, Graphic Designers, Helvetica, His Own, His Work, Inter, Internet Archive, Internet Archive The, Interview About Contact, Interwar Years, Josef Muller, Kerry William, Kerry William Purcell, Learn The, MAX BILL, Mar APR May, Max Bill, Modern Architecture, More From, New Office, Plus Email Ask, Richard Paul Lohse, Royal Academy, Second World War, THE FORM, THE USE, TIMESTAMPS The Wayback, The American, The Art, The Bauhaus, The Case, The Commercial, The Company, The Content, The Design, The Design Museum, The Designers, The End, The Form, The German, The Graphic Design, The Internet, The Mid, The Museum, The New, The People, The Period, The Philosophy, The Real, The Relationship, The Rise, The Royal Academy, The Soviet, The Time, The Twentieth Century, The Use, The Visual, The War, The Wayback Machine, The Web, The Young, Total Design, Twelve Years, Twentieth Century, Twitter Facebook Google, Typographic Style, Visual Culture, Was Just, Wayback Machine, Western Europe, Wim Crouwel, World War, You Could
- designers_mentioned: A.M. Cassandre, Armin Hofmann, Bauhaus, Benno Wissing, Cassandre, Karl Gerstner, Together, Total Design, Wim Crouwel
- gradients: 0

## Body

9 captures 25 Apr 2012 - 21 Feb 2025 Mar APR May 25 2011 2012 2013 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Organization: Internet Archive The Internet Archive discovers and captures web pages through many different web crawls. At any given time several distinct crawls are running, some for months, and some every day or longer. View the web archive through the Wayback Machine. Collection: Wikipedia Outlinks February 2012 Crawl of outlinks from wikipedia.org started February, 2012. These files are currently not publicly accessible. TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20120425141434/http://kerrywilliampurcell.tumblr.com/post/10047644883/wim-crouwel Kerry William Purcell, Wim Crouwel Kerry William Purcell Wim Crouwel (Edited version Published in Eye Magazine, No. 79, Spring 2011) As we know, it is no coincidence that throughout the twentieth century, when the turmoil of social and historical events became intolerable, the seeds of desire for order and logic are sown. Thus, following the First World War we witnessed the outpouring of artistic movements, the rise of schools, and the creation of work that sought to propagate the ideas of modernism; or more specifically, that strand within modernism that sought to establish a visual culture founded upon a set of universal values of systematized structure and order. This was equally so after the Second World War, when the International Typographic Style, drawing on the outpouring of ideas during the interwar years, established its influence. So, how do we explain the more recent fascination with all elements of modernism in design? Or more specifically, the growing interest in those key post Second World-War pioneers who took many of the radical ideas of the Bauhaus and constructivist design and paired them down to their essential elements. It could be that logical approach of such designers as Josef Muller-Brockmann, Richard Paul Lohse and Max Bill codified many of the design innovations of the inter-war years, and for many of today’s younger designers such work offers a clear design language which comes with a clear moral authority as to the purpose of graphic design. Or maybe it is the case that as the purveyors of the International Typographic Style quietly ignored many of the radical political ideas once associated with Constructivist and Bauhaus design philosophies, so today’s designers find the clean and orderly surfaces of post-war European design dovetail nicely with the seemingly apolitical wishes of the commercial clients they so keenly solicit? One of the designers who has become intrinsically associated in the minds of many young designers with modernist graphics is Wim Crouwel. Both through the sheer originality of his work and through his own seemingly continuous succession of talks, judging and interviews, Crouwel (now 82 years old) has become a father figure for many of today’s established young designers. With an exhibition of his work about to open at the Design Museum, London and a forthcoming book on the famous Total Design studio, the place of Crouwel in the pantheon of modernist designers seems only to be reinforced. Born in 1928, the Dutch designer Wim Crouwel was twelve years old when Germany invaded Holland in May 1940. His remaining school years were a time of mass deportations (of Jews and other ‘undesirables’), the imprisonment or execution of political figures and Arbeitseinsatz, the drafting of Dutch men to carry out civilian labour in Germany. ‘My father was taken away to Germany,’ Crouwel said when I met with him in his Amsterdam home. ‘Train-loads of men between 18 and 45 years of age were forced to work there, to do things the German men would have done had they not been in the army.’ His father was a lithographer by trade and for the young Crouwel a big influence on his early life. ‘He was a block-maker, and during the holiday periods I worked in his drawing room. So very early on my father stimulated me to do drawings.’ During his father’s two-year absence, Crouwel took it upon himself to continue his own education in art and architecture. He began to explore his local library in Groningen, a small town in northern Holland. ‘I would often go on Wednesday afternoons, when we were free of school, to the town library to read magazines from the 1930s. I was interested in architecture and there was an old lady librarian, who learned what interested me and put together a pile of things she thought I would like.’ Among these was Paul Schuitema’s de 8 en Opbouw (8 in Construction – 1932 - 1943). The modern architectural movement in Holland (known alternatively as Nieuwe Bouwen or Nieuwe Zakelijheid) was, obviously, principally concerned with architecture. Yet, in magazines like this, they approached the page as a piece of architecture in itself, developing a radical language through which to communicate their functionalist ideas on the design of urban spaces. While initially drawn to the content, Crouwel also learned from the form of the publication. After the war, Crouwel entered the Art Academy Minerva in Groningen (1946-49) to study painting. He struck up friendships with the painters Job Hansen (who lived next door to his grandparents and was a friend of H. N. Werkman) and Jan van der Zee who lived opposite the art school. Both men encouraged Crouwel’s interest in abstract painting. However, it wasn’t until the A.M. Cassandre poster Étoile du Nord (1927) caught his eye on the academy’s studio wall that he considered commercial art a possible career. After leaving art school, Crouwel saw no future in Groningen, so he travelled to Amsterdam. However in the aftermath of the war, Holland’s capital, like most of Europe, was struggling to re-establish itself. There were few commercial agencies and what existed was very traditional: work opportunities were slim. Crouwel decided to phone the most celebrated poster designers in the country: Dick Elffers and Otto Treumann. They both invited him to visit. Soon afterwards, Elffers offered to find him work with Enderberg, a local exhibitions company. The company was staging several touring exhibitions, funded by the US-backed European Recovery Program, or ‘Marshall Plan’. Crouwel worked on two large displays staged on barges, on the lines of the Soviet Agit trains. He says: ‘They had these enormous barges, known as Rheine Barges, and we had two of them. One of them had a cinema in it and an exhibition on top. They were intended to travel around Holland and teach the farmers about the American system. It was the Marshall plan to get Europe going again and learn the American way of agriculture and industry.’ In an exhibition entitled ‘Alle hens aan dek’ (All hands on deck) the top level of the barges were designed to collapse so they could fit underneath the many bridges the barges encountered and as such Crouwel worked closely with the companies three-dimensional designer to create a workable system. For Crouwel, being at the heart of this collaboration of architects, interior designers and graphic designers was a key moment in his career. At Enderberg he met photographer Ernst Scheidegger, the Italian exhibition designer Lanfranco Bombelli, and the Swiss designer Gérard Ifert, all of whom had been sent to Amsterdam by the US Information office. Later, he travelled to Switzerland with Ifert to meet designers Armin Hofmann, Karl Gerstner and Hans Neuburg. What struck him on these trips was the use of type in Swiss design. ‘First of all I was impressed by the Akzidenz Grotesque typeface. I did my first posters in that period [mid 1950s] for the Van Abbemuseum [Eindhoven],’ he says. ‘You couldn’t get [the type] in Holland: the printers were all fed by the Amsterdam type foundry who didn’t have it [the other foundry at this time was Joh. Enschede & Sons Foundary]. So I bought Swiss magazines and newspapers and cut these typefaces out and glued them on to make up the lettering for those first posters.’ The Swiss i
