# Government 2.0 by William Eggers

URL: https://web.archive.org/web/20090217212239/http://www.manhattan-institute.org/government2.0/
Source: web.archive.org
Fetched: 20260603-231112
Cycle: 13
Quality: 1.00
Language: en
On-topic: yes
Body: 6136 chars, ~898 words

## Design signals
- top_colors: —
- fonts: ABOUT THE AUTHOR, About The, About This, Alexa Crawls Starting, Alexa Internet, And More, Award For Excellence, Case Studies, City Hall, City Halls, Crawl Data, Cut Red Tape, Digital Age, Enhance Democracy, Executive Director, Free Press, Harvard University, Homeland Security, Improve Education, Information Age, Internet Archive, Jan FEB Mar, Littlefield Publishers, More Efficient, NEW YORK, Public Policy, Public Sector, Reduce Gridlock, State University, TIMESTAMPS The Wayback, The Author, The Book, The Future, The Internet, The Past, The Power, The Roots, The Terms, The Wayback Machine, Using Technology, Vice President, Wayback Machine
- designers_mentioned: Huge
- gradients: 0

## Body

Government 2.0 by William Eggers 119 captures 11 Jan 2005 - 18 Aug 2025 Jan FEB Mar 17 2008 2009 2010 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Organization: Alexa Crawls Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive. Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period. Collection: alexa_web_2009 this data is currently not publicly accessible. TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20090217212239/http://www.manhattan-institute.org:80/government2.0/ Home William Eggers Reviews Media Author Q&A; Book Tour Talking Points Back to MI Contact: Lindsay Young Craig Executive Director, Communications, Manhattan Institute 212-599-7000 Book Info: Available at Amazon.com Available at Barnes and Noble ISBN: 0-7425-4175-4 Hardcover Now Available Government 2.0: Using Technology to Improve Education, Cut Red Tape, Reduce Gridlock, and Enhance Democracy (Rowman & Littlefield Publishers, January 2005) By William D. Eggers Unhyped and therefore unnoticed, technology is altering the behavior and mission of city halls, statehouses, schools, and federal agencies across America. From transportation to education to elections to law enforcement (or, as we're now referring to it, "homeland security"), the digital revolution is transforming government and politics, slashing bureaucracies; improving services; producing innovative solutions to some of our nation's thorniest problems; changing the terms of the Left/Right political debate; and offering ordinary people access to a degree of information and individual influence until recently accessible only to the most powerful citizens, finally redeeming the Founding Fathers' original vision for our democracy, and transforming American life and society in the process. Based on interviews with over 500 leading politicians, researchers, technology industry CEOs and leaders, futurists and front-line public employees, Government 2.0 journeys across America and overseas to demonstrate the promise and perils of this emerging world and offer a likely road map to its implementation. You’ll hear from technology executives preparing for an onrushing future when, for many citizens, most government interactions could take place on private-sector websites; from bureaucrats like OSHA’s Ed Stern fighting to get their agencies to adopt expert systems technology; from William Bennett, whose virtual education company offers a glimpse into one possible future of American education; and from Governor Jeb Bush and former Mayor Rudolph Giuliani as they endeavor to overcome bureaucratic inertia to provide more open, efficient, and effective governments. Rich with anecdotes and case studies, Government 2.0 is a must read for every entrepreneur frustrated by paperwork, every parent who’s sick of being surprised by bad report cards, every commuter stuck in traffic, every activist trying to fight City Hall, and every taxpayer who cares about the future of government. About the Author William D. Eggers is the global director at Deloitte Research, Public Sector, the research arm of Deloitte, and a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute for Policy Research. A nationally recognized expert on government reform, Eggers is the 1996 winner of the prestigious Roe Award for leadership and innovation in public policy research and the 2002 APEX award for excellence in business journalism. Mr. Eggers is also the co-author of Revolution at the Roots: Making our Government Smaller, Better, and Closer to Home (The Free Press). The book was named the winner of the 1996 Sir Anthony Fisher International Memorial Award for the book "making the greatest contribution to the understanding of the free economy during the past two years." ADVANCE PRAISE "In this important book, William Eggers shows convincingly just how much promise technology holds for making government more efficient, transparent, and responsive to its citizens. Eggers displays a keen understanding of policy-making in the digital age. Accompanying his insightful policy prescriptions are invaluable tips for putting the ideas into practice. Government 2.0 is a great contribution to freedom and democracy." - Governor Bill Owens, Colorado "Government 2.0 should be required reading for all policy makers; it showcases the power of harnessing new technologies in a readable fashion with wonderful, real-life anecdotes. The information is vital for anyone helping to chart the political, cultural and economic future of our country." - Cathilea Robinett, Executive Director, Centers for Digital Government and Education Executive Vice President, e.Republic, Inc. "Bill Eggers effectively identifies that democracy in America today is increasingly being played out by everyday citizens in front of computer screens. He shows that political leaders can be in constructive two-way conversations with their constituents if they understand the dynamics of today's technologies." - Minneapolis Mayor R.T. Rybak "Bill Eggers is one of the country's leading experts on government reform. I have been reading and listening to for a decade, since I first was elected mayor of Indianapolis. His new book, Government 2.0, provides a major contribution to the public policy debate." - Stephen Goldsmith, Professor, Faculty Chair of the Innovations in American Government Program, Harvard University and former mayor of Indianapolis "Every year, more governments are using technology to become more user-friendly and transparent for citizens, and, ultimately, more effective - moving from old-style patronage politics to performance politics. Government 2.0 is a great place to start for government leaders who want to make the right choices to have the biggest impact." - Baltimore Mayor Martin O'Malley "Bill Eggers is out front ably tackling the huge challenge of making America's governments more rational and more electronic. This is the last frontier of the information age. Let's hope Eggers is right that "IT" shall overcome!" - Richard P. Nathan, Director, Rockefeller Institute of Government, State University of New York
