# Domain Names Frequently Asked Questions - FAQ | HugeDomains

URL: https://www.HugeDomains.com/faq.cfm
Source: www.hugedomains.com
Fetched: 20260603-110647
Cycle: 5
Quality: 0.90
Language: en
On-topic: yes
Body: 10552 chars, ~1785 words

## Design signals
- top_colors: —
- fonts: And That, Are You, Are You Selling, Difference Between, HugeDomains Skip, Matter, May Not, Money Back Guarantee, The Difference Between, The Future, The Importance, The New, The Use, Want You, WhoIs Privacy Protection, You Need
- designers_mentioned: Manual
- gradients: 0

## Body

Domain Names Frequently Asked Questions - FAQ | HugeDomains Skip to main content Frequently asked questionsFAQs Expand all Collapse all Buying a domain Expand this section Collapse this section How do I get the domain after the purchase? 1-1 Once you purchase the domain, we will push it into an account for you at our registrar, NameBright.com. We will then send you an email with your NameBright username and password. In most cases access to the domain will be available within one to two hours of purchase, however access to domains purchased after business hours will be available within the next business day. What comes with the domain name? 1-2 One year of free Whois privacy protection is included with domains purchased at HugeDomains, look for the Whois opt-in during checkout. Also, the first year of domain registration is included with domains purchased at HugeDomains that are delivered at NameBright. Do I also get the other domain extensions when I purchase a domain from HugeDomains.com? 1-3 No. Your purchase is strictly for the domain purchased from HugeDomains.com. If you are looking for the other gTLDs of the domain name, you will need to buy those domains separately. When is a sale considered final? 1-4 All sales are subject to the final approval of HugeDomains, and we reserve the right to deny fulfillment of any order at any time and for any reason. In the event that HugeDomains decides to stop fulfillment of an order and payment has already been rendered by the buyer, we will issue a complete refund immediately. Only once the domain name has been transferred into the buyer's name and the buyer has received possession of the domain will a sale be considered final. Do I get access to my domains immediately after purchase? 1-5 In most cases access to the domain(s) will be available within one or two hours of purchase. Domains purchased after business hours will be available the next business day. How does HugeDomains protect my shopping experience? 1-6 At HugeDomains.com, your online safety and security is our top priority. We understand the importance of protecting your personal information. We value our relationship with you and want you to shop confidently with us, knowing that your information is secure. We protect your information through SSL encryption technology, providing the safest, most secure shopping experience possible. Additionally, you may checkout with PayPal or Escrow.com. Transfer questions Expand this section Collapse this section Can I transfer my domain to another registrar after I buy it? 2-1 You can transfer your domain to any registrar or hosting company after purchase. Once you've purchased the domain, you will receive an email from NameBright.com, the domain's current registrar. Login to NameBright to initiate a transfer. Since domain transfers are a manual process, it can take up to 5 days to transfer the domain. * Note that domains purchased with payment plans are not eligible to transfer until all payments have been made. ** Note that there are certain situations that can prevent a domain name from being transferred, such as if it is subject to a 60-day Change of Registrant lock. *** Remember that our 30-day money back guarantee is void once a domain has been transferred. How do domain name transfers work? 2-2 Domain transfers are fairly a straightforward process of changing the domain from one registrar to another. To begin, go to the domain's current registrar. Unlock the domain and obtain an Authorization Code. Then, go to the new registrar and initiate a transfer. Follow the steps provided by the new registrar. For more information about domain transfers, click here. How do I transfer my domain to GoDaddy? 2-3 After purchasing a domain from HugeDomains, you'll need to prepare your domain before initiating the transfer. For detailed steps on how to transfer a domain to GoDaddy, click here. Payment questions Expand this section Collapse this section Can I make an offer on the domain? 3-1 We do negotiate on our domains. If you would like to make an offer on the domain, send an email to , use our contact us page, or call us at 303-893-0552. HugeDomains will always consider your offer; however, our pricing may or may not be negotiable depending upon the domain. The value of a domain is based on a number of factors including, but not limited to comparable sales, the length of the domain, and popularity of the domain keywords. Do you offer payment plans? 3-2 Yes, we offer payment plans with various term length options. See details on our payment plans. How do I purchase the domain? / What payment options do you provide? 3-3 We accept Visa, MC, AMEX, and Discover. We also accept Paypal and payments made through Escrow.com. Where do I make my monthly payments for my payment plan? 3-4 When you start a payment plan, your payments are set to be processed automatically on the same date you started your plan. For example, if you start your plan on March 10, then your payment will be processed on the 10th of every month. If you need to make up a payment or change your payment method, you will log into your payment plan billing account. You will find a link to your billing account on the home page of HugeDomains.com. Domain ownership Expand this section Collapse this section How long will I own my domain? 4-1 Once purchased, you will have full control of and exclusive registration rights to the domain. All domain names must be re-registered every year for $8 and up per year, paid to your registrar. As long as you maintain your registration every year, you will maintain ownership of the domain for as long as you want to own it. How do I keep my personal information private? / What is Whois Privacy Protection? 4-2 If you wish the domain ownership information to be private, add WhoIs Privacy Protection to your domain. This hides your personal information from the general public. To add privacy protection to your domain, do so within your registrar account. NameBright offers WhoIs Privacy Protection for free for the first year, and then for a small fee for subsequent years. Whois information is not updated immediately. It typically takes several hours for Whois data to update, and different registrars are faster than others. Usually your Whois information will be fully updated within two days. How do I update DNS, URL forwarding and other settings? 4-3 When you purchase your domain, HugeDomains creates an account for you at NameBright.com. We'll send you an email with your NameBright account login information. At NameBright, you'll be able to manage your domain settings; such as URL forwarding, DNS and more. For more information, click here. Yearly Registration Fees 4-4 As a part of buying any domain name you will have to pay yearly registration fees. These fees depend on the registrar you decide to keep your domain with, but typically run anywhere from $8.95 to $25.00 per year. IF YOU FAIL to pay these yearly registration/renewal costs to your domain registrar, your domain will expire and you will no longer have ownership rights to the domain name. Domains 101 Expand this section Collapse this section How do domain names work? 5-1 Domain names are the familiar names of URLs, or unique identifiers, on the Internet. Domain names function in a manner similar to a physical address in the physical world: Domain names identify IP addresses. Just as you would address a letter to send in the mail, the IP address tells computers where websites are located on a network. Domain names are assigned by ICANN, The Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers. ICANN is the accrediting regulatory agency that governs the use of domain names. ICANN's primary mission is to make sure that every domain has a URL, and that each domain has a unique IP address. Domain names need to be renewed yearly by their owner (registrant). This registration fee is paid to a registrar, such as NameBright.com, who acts as the middleman between domain owners an
