# Journal of Medical Internet Research - The Limitations of User-and Human-Centered Design in an eHealth Context and How to Move Beyond Them

URL: https://www.jmir.org/2022/10/e37341
Source: www.jmir.org
Fetched: 20260603-115139
Cycle: 6
Quality: 0.98
Language: en
On-topic: yes
Body: 78078 chars, ~12070 words

## Design signals
- top_colors: —
- fonts: ARE SUBJECT, About This, And Self, And That, Are Designed, Artificial Intelligence, Best Practices, Big Data, CHI Conference, Case Studies, Case Study, Centered Design, Computer Interaction, Computing Systems, Could Lead, Creative Commons, DATA AND, Design For, Design Inspiration, Design Issues, Design Research, Digital Health, European Union, Experimental Study, Extended Abstracts, Fall Back, Google Scholar, Human Factors, Innovation Management, International Conference, International Standard, MIT Press, Matter, May Not, Medical Internet Research, Mental Health, Narrative Inquiry, Not For, Older Adults, PLOS ONE, Participatory Design, Personal Information, San Diego, Short History, THE POSSIBILITY, THE USE, Than Just, The BODY, The Cost, The Design, The End, The Founders, The Future, The German, The History, The Impact, The Importance, The Influence, The Journal, The Lancet, The Medical, The Past, The People, The Principle, The Role, The Roots, The Rules, The Terms, The Use, The Well, Their Influence, User Centered Design, Will Not, You Don
- designers_mentioned: Apple, Mason, Together
- gradients: 0

## Body

Journal of Medical Internet Research - The Limitations of User-and Human-Centered Design in an eHealth Context and How to Move Beyond Them Skip to Main Content Skip to Footer Accessibility settings This paper is in the following e-collection/theme issue: Viewpoints and Perspectives (619) User-Centered Design Case Studies (769) User Needs and Competencies (517) Published on 05.Oct.2022 in Vol 24, No 10 (2022): October Preprints (earlier versions) of this paper are available at https://preprints.jmir.org/preprint/37341, first published 16.Feb.2022. The Limitations of User-and Human-Centered Design in an eHealth Context and How to Move Beyond Them The Limitations of User-and Human-Centered Design in an eHealth Context and How to Move Beyond Them Authors of this article: Lex van Velsen1, 2 ; Geke Ludden3 ; Christiane Grünloh1, 4 Article Authors Cited by (94) Tweetations (40) Metrics Viewpoint Lex van Velsen1,2 ; Geke Ludden3, PhD ; Christiane Grünloh1,4, PhD 1eHealth Department, Roessingh Research and Development, Enschede, Netherlands 2Department of Communication Science, University of Twente, Enschede, Netherlands 3Department of Design, Production and Management, University of Twente, Enschede, Netherlands 4Biomedical Systems and Signals group, University of Twente, Enschede, Netherlands Corresponding Author: Geke Ludden, PhD Department of Design, Production and Management University of Twente Drienerlolaan 5 Enschede, 7522NB Netherlands Phone: 31 534892920 Email: g.d.s.ludden@utwente.nl Abstract Human-centered design (HCD) is widely regarded as the best design approach for creating eHealth innovations that align with end users’ needs, wishes, and context and has the potential to impact health care. However, critical reflections on applying HCD within the context of eHealth are lacking. Applying a critical eye to the use of HCD approaches within eHealth, we present and discuss 9 limitations that the current practices of HCD in eHealth innovation often carry. The limitations identified range from limited reach and bias to narrow contextual and temporal focus. Design teams should carefully consider if, how, and when they should involve end users and other stakeholders in the design process and how they can combine their insights with existing knowledge and design skills. Finally, we discuss how a more critical perspective on using HCD in eHealth innovation can move the field forward and offer 3 directions of inspiration to improve our design practices: value-sensitive design, citizen science, and more-than-human design. Although value-sensitive design approaches offer a solution to some of the biased or limited views of traditional HCD approaches, combining a citizen science approach with design inspiration and imagining new futures could widen our view on eHealth innovation. Finally, a more-than-human design approach will allow eHealth solutions to care for both people and the environment. These directions can be seen as starting points that invite and support the field of eHealth innovation to do better and to try and develop more inclusive, fair, and valuable eHealth innovations that will have an impact on health and care.J Med Internet Res 2022;24(10):e37341 doi:10.2196/37341 Keywords user-centered design; human-centered design; eHealth, value-sensitive design; citizen science Introduction Background For years, user-centered design (UCD) has been considered to be a crucial part of eHealth design. It is believed to improve an innovation’s usefulness and usability [1], to improve end-user satisfaction with the innovation [2], and to increase the quality of user requirements [3]. In addition to this, in the context of eHealth, a strong focus on end users during the design process (patients, care professionals, or others) is deemed to improve adoption rates [4-6], patient decision-making [7], patient engagement [8,9], and patient satisfaction [8]. UCD is a design approach or philosophy that originated in the 1980s. Two seminal publications coined the concept [10] and listed its key principles [11]. According to Gould and Lewis [11], these key principles are that there should be an early focus on users and tasks. First, designers should study the users and the tasks that they need to perform with a technology to understand them fully. Second, the design team should use empirical measurements. Prospective end users need to work with prototypical versions of a technology and their performance and reactions should then be analyzed in a scientific manner. Third, one should apply iterative design. Within the design process, there should be multiple cycles of design, testing, and redesign. Since then, different publications have provided hands-on guidelines on how to implement UCD in practice, for example, an overview by Maguire [12] of the complete UCD process and methods to apply at every stage, and an international standard offering guidance on human-centered design (HCD) activities (International Organization for Standardization 9241-210 “Human-centred design for interactive systems,” the latest version being from 2019 [13]). According to the International Organization for Standardization standard, HCD “is an approach to interactive systems development that aims to make systems usable and useful by focusing on the users, their needs and requirements, and by applying human factors or ergonomics and usability knowledge and techniques.” The international standard outlines the following principles that should be followed in a human-centered approach [13]: The design is based upon explicit understanding of users, tasks, and environments. Users are involved throughout design and development. The design is driven and refined by user-centered evaluation. The process is iterative. The design addresses the whole user experience. The design team includes multidisciplinary skills and perspectives. Meanwhile, in design research as well as in the field of human-computer interaction (HCI), the term UCD has become a topic of much debate. Although the terms UCD and HCD are often used interchangeably, several authors in these fields have argued that the term UCD reduces a person to someone using a technology, failing to see the whole human being that lives with the technology. Gasson [14], for example, argues for using HCD instead of UCD to avoid a focus on people as technology users and to allow a broader view of human activity supported by technology. In this paper, we will use the term HCD as an umbrella term for both approaches. HCD has found its way into eHealth design via several road maps that specifically focus on health and well-being as a domain. The Center for eHealth Research (CeHReS) road map [15] is perhaps the most widely used design road map in the field and specifies the following 5 main phases in which HCD is a crucial element: contextual inquiry, value specification, design, operationalization, and summative evaluation. Each phase comes with its own goals and selection of methods that one can apply. The CeHReS road map has been used to guide the development of a wide range of eHealth apps, such as a mobile app to support people in dealing with ticks and tick bites [16], an information dashboard to support nurses in antimicrobial stewardship [17], or a blended exercise therapy intervention for patients with knee and hip osteoarthritis [18]. Other design approaches that heavily hinge on the HCD philosophy and have been used to guide eHealth development include intervention mapping [19], the person-based approach [20], and Integrate, Design, Assess, and Share [21]. Although the authors of these different approaches have all defined their own phases in the design process, their makeup and essence are basically the same. They revolve around extensive end-user (and stakeholder) involvement, iterative design, and working systematically, the same principles that the founders of HCD listed. Many articles report on the results of HCD processes in eHealth and refle
