# Commentary

URL: https://www.pentagram.com/news/category/commentary
Source: www.pentagram.com
Fetched: 20260603-183248
Cycle: 6
Quality: 1.00
Language: en
On-topic: yes
Body: 5319 chars, ~832 words

## Design signals
- top_colors: —
- fonts: And More, Arts Magazine, Communication Design, Creative Review, Design Museum, Design Thinking, Graphic Designer, His Work, Honorary Royal Designer, Jody Hudson, Luke Powell, Marina Willer, Michael Bierut, Natasha Jen, Parsons The New, Paula Scher, Pentagram Partners, Royal Designer, Royal Designers, Seymour Chwast, Spoke With, The Artist, The Design, The Design Museum, The Influence, The Making, The New, The New School, The Number, The RSA, The Studio
- designers_mentioned: Pentagram
- gradients: 0

## Body

Commentary Pentagram Latest news Commentary Jan 13, 2025 In Memory of Woody Pirtle, 1944-2025 The celebrated designer and former Pentagram partner has passed away at age 81. Commentary Dec 02, 2024 Performance.gov Paula Scher shares the process of designing the website for performance.gov, a new government initiative to document strategic goals and make them understandable to the public. Commentary Sep 23, 2024 Liberty, Karel Martens and Harry Pearce: an Unapologetic Alliance Adrian Shaughnessy talks to Harry Pearce about the creative collaboration between Pentagram, Karel Martens and the Liberty Fabric Design Team. Commentary May 23, 2024 Eddie Opara Delivers Commencement Address at Parsons The New School for Design The Pentagram partner shared an inspirational message with the 2024 graduating classes in Communication Design. Commentary May 25, 2022 In Memory of Colin Forbes, 1928–2022 The celebrated designer and Pentagram co-founder has passed away at age 94. Commentary Nov 29, 2021 Paula Scher and Marina Willer are Honoured by the RSA Both Pentagram partners are now Royal Designers for Industry. Commentary Nov 11, 2021 In Memory of Bob Gill, 1931–2021 The co-founder of Fletcher/Forbes/Gill, the studio that grew into Pentagram, has passed away at age 90. Commentary Dec 11, 2020 Why We Should All Sing 'The Gravy Song‘ In his latest piece as President of D&AD, Naresh writes about the recent racist backlash to the Sainsbury's Christmas ad. Commentary Jun 19, 2020 Home Poems Naresh Ramchandani looks back on the making of a series of short films created (with a little help from his friends) during lockdown. Commentary Mar 23, 2020 A Love Letter from Designer Paula Scher Pentagram designer Paula Scher explains the influence Seymour Chwast’s Artone font had on a generation as part of a new series from Creative Review. Commentary Jul 24, 2018 An Interview with Sascha Lobe, Pentagram's Newest Partner By Rachael Steven for Creative Review Commentary Apr 20, 2018 The Making of Mechasobi In the autumn of 2017, the Jody Hudson-Powell and Luke Powell team at Pentagram were commissioned by the Barbican to create an interactive digital installation for their touring exhibition – ‘Mangasia: Wonderlands of Asian Comics’. Commentary Mar 06, 2018 Colin Forbes on the Structure of Pentagram On the occasion of the 90th birthday of Pentagram co-founder Colin Forbes, we reprint his classic 1992 essay “Transition” and share a portfolio of his work. Commentary Jan 23, 2018 Drawing the Process Pentagram partner Daniel Weil shares his sketchbooks and discusses how drawing is design thinking made visible. Commentary Mar 29, 2017 Vinyl. Album. Cover. Art. Harry Pearce writes the 'Outro' for the first book to chronicle Hipgnosis' entire back catalogue. Commentary Jan 07, 2025 Michael Bierut Honored by RSA The Pentagram partner has been named an Honorary Royal Designer for Industry. Commentary Nov 04, 2024 How America Elects a President An educational poster series designed by Fletcher/Forbes/Gill in 1964 explains the process of choosing a US President in a complicated democracy. Commentary Jul 22, 2024 In Memory of Sir Kenneth Grange, 1929-2024 The celebrated designer and co-founder of Pentagram has passed away at age 95. Commentary Apr 11, 2023 Working With Rick Rubin on ‘The Creative Act: A Way of Being’ Paula Scher shares the process of helping the legendary music producer design his new book. Commentary Feb 24, 2022 Design Is Spiritual Eddie Opara contributes the afterword to the new book "The Black Experience in Design: Identity, Expression & Reflection." Commentary Nov 24, 2021 In Memory of David Pocknell Commentary May 17, 2021 Electric Car Sound Design As the number of electric vehicles on the roads dramatically increases, Yuri Suzuki and team have been researching and developing ideas around car sound and safety. Commentary Dec 03, 2020 In Memory of Arline Oberman, 1927-2020 In remembrance of the artist, illustrator, graphic designer and mother to our partner Emily, whose work was featured in ‘Pentagram Papers 43: Drawing McCarthy.’ Commentary Apr 29, 2020 Angus Hyland writes about the WWF logo for Computer Arts Angus Hyland was asked to write about his 'Design Crush' for the last-ever issue of Computer Arts magazine. Commentary Mar 28, 2019 Harry Pearce interviewed in 26 26 recently spoke with Harry Pearce about his work with words as images and using language as and inspiration for designing ideas. Commentary Apr 27, 2018 An Interview with Jon Marshall, Pentagram's Newest Partner By Patrick Burgoyne for Creative Review Commentary Apr 17, 2018 Why brands stopped being funny Naresh Ramchandani, partner at Pentagram London, discusses why he thinks it’s time for brands to start making us laugh once again. Commentary Feb 23, 2018 Design Thinking, Examined Can Design Thinking help us understand Design Thinking? Natasha Jen examines the approach in a poster for her talk “Design Thinking Is Bullshit.” Commentary Jan 22, 2018 #FontSunday: Unintended and Unexpected Outcomes A selection of images from the Pentagram edition of the Design Museum's popular Twitter-based tribute to typography. Commentary Mar 23, 2017 Giving Virtual Reality Less Fidelity and More Purpose Jody Hudson-Powell explains why he's created a symbol for web-based virtual reality.
