# Applying for Patents | USPTO

URL: http://www.uspto.gov/web/offices/ac/ido/oeip/taf/patdesc.htm
Source: www.uspto.gov
Fetched: 20260603-185628
Cycle: 7
Quality: 0.98
Language: en
On-topic: yes
Body: 62201 chars, ~9731 words

## Design signals
- top_colors: —
- fonts: About This, Aids Are, And How, And More, And That, CONNECTION WITH THE, Design For, Higher Education, Intellectual Property, Main Content, Matter, May Not, SHALL NOT, San Jose, Since June, THE ACTION, THE SERVICES, The Art, The Case, The Conditions, The Data, The Day, The Design, The Elements, The Independent, The Invention, The Irish, The Latin, The Making, The Nature, The New, The Number, The Order, The Origin, The Period, The Power, The Revival, The Rules, The Services, The State, The Text, The Time, The Types, The United States, Times Roman, Will Not, You Can, You Think, You Think The
- designers_mentioned: Apple, Portion, Together
- gradients: 0

## Body

Applying for Patents | USPTO Skip to main content An official website of the United States government Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. The site is secure. A lock ( lock ) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. Applying for Patents In filing a patent application and paying required fees, the USPTO provides forms and an electronic filing tool. You may also wish to find a patent attorney or agent to help draft the required description of the invention and claims, and any required drawings. This page provides information on the types of patents and types of patent applications, and the examination process. It also covers how to conduct a preliminary search and find registered patent practitioners to help with your application. We also walk you through how to file your application electronically or by mail. Search for patents and prior art You may make a preliminary search of patents and other publications to discover if a particular invention or one similar to it has been shown in prior art. You may also consider employing patent attorneys or agents to do the search. This search may not be as complete as ours when examining an application, but it only serves, as its name indicates, a preliminary purpose. The patent examiner may, and often does, reject claims in an application based on information not found in the preliminary search. Each individual associated with processing a patent application has a duty to disclose all information, including any prior art, known to be material to patentability. We suggest a six-step strategy for preliminary searches of U.S. patents and published applications, using free online resources from us and our international partners. The Patent Public Search tool is a web-based search tool to provide enhanced access to prior art. The six steps Brainstorm description terms for your invention based on its purpose, composition, and use. For utility applications, use these description terms to find relevant Cooperative Patent Classifications (CPC) using the Classification Text Search Tool. Verify CPC classification by reviewing related definitions. Retrieve published application documents and actual U.S. patents using relevant classification resources and our Patent Public Search Tool. Review each relevant document in depth for similarity to your invention. Include non-U.S. patent databases or non-patent literature to find more relevant documents. WIPO search tools include PatentScope and the Global Design Database for designs. Other search resources Scientific and Technical Information Center (STIC) The USPTO STIC, in Alexandria, Virginia, offers scientific and technical books in various languages to the public. STIC holds science and technology periodicals, the official journals of 77 foreign patent organizations, and more than 40 million foreign patents on paper and electronically. The center is open to the public from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. on weekdays (except federal holidays) by appointment only. Public Search Facility The Public Search Facility, also at USPTO headquarters in Alexandria, is where you may search for and examine U.S. patents granted since 1790 using state-of-the-art technology. Publications, manuals, online databases, and other search aids are available. Resources include patent ownership records. Public workstations provide access to public electronic patent and trademark collections. The public search room enables you to conduct self-directed searches. The facility is open from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. weekdays except on federal holidays. Research assistance is offered 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. weekdays, with self-service access from 5-8 p.m. Regional offices USPTO regional offices have many public workstations with the same requirements and resources as at the Public Search Facility. Public searching is available from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. weekdays, except federal holidays. Here are the regional offices: Southwest Regional Outreach Office (Dallas) Rocky Mountain Regional Outreach Office (Denver) Midwest Ellijah J. McCoy Regional Outreach Office (Detroit) Western Regional Outreach Office (San Jose, California) Patent and Trademark Resource Centers (PTRCs) PTRCs are a nationwide network of public, state, and academic libraries with resources to help you protect your intellectual property. Collections include current issues of U.S. patents along with earlier patents and trademarks. The scope of the collections varies, ranging from only recent patents to most of those issued since 1790. Attorneys and agents Preparing a patent application and conducting the proceedings requires knowledge of patent law, USPTO rules and procedures, and scientific or technical knowledge related to the particular invention. While you may prosecute the application without these skills, you might not get all the protection you can without an experienced attorney/agent’s help. So we suggest you hire a registered patent practitioner to draft and prosecute your application. The USPTO registers both patent attorneys and non-attorneys called "patent agents" for permission to prepare and prosecute patent applications. When you appoint an attorney or agent, the USPTO does not communicate with you directly, but instead with the attorney or agent. In employing a patent attorney or agent, you execute a power of attorney, filed and made of record in the application file. You may contact the USPTO concerning the status of your application, and remove the attorney or agent at any time by revoking the power of attorney. MPEP § 400 provides more information on power of attorney, naming a representative, and corresponding with us regarding a patent application. More information on attorneys and agents The USPTO has legal authority to regulate the conduct and recognition of patent attorneys and agents. Those not recognized by the USPTO for this practice are prohibited from representing inventors before the agency. Patent agents, however, cannot argue patent cases in courts or perform services considered by local jurisdictions as practicing law. For example, a patent agent cannot draw up a patent-related contract, such as for an assignment or a license, if the agent’s state of residence considers drafting contracts as the practice of law. The USPTO maintains a register of patent attorneys and agents. To be admitted to this register, attorneys and agents must comply with USPTO regulations requiring good moral character and reputation, as well as certain legal, scientific, and technical qualifications. Some qualifications must be demonstrated by passing an exam. Admission to the exam requires a college degree in engineering or physical science, or its equivalent. Directories of patent attorneys can be found both in print and online, and from the agency. Many large cities have associations of such attorneys. The USPTO cannot recommend or aid in selecting a patent attorney or agent, as by stating, in response to inquiry, that an attorney, agent, or firm is “reliable” or “capable.” The USPTO has the power to disbar, or suspend from practicing before it, attorneys and agents guilty of gross misconduct. This can only be done after a full hearing, with clear and convincing evidence of misconduct presented. The USPTO will receive and (as appropriate) act upon complaints against attorneys and agents. Fees charged to you by attorneys and agents for their professional services are not regulated by the USPTO. Definite evidence of overcharging may prompt USPTO action, but the agency rarely intervenes in fee disputes. Some unregistered individuals and organizations advertise patent search services, and invention marketing and development. They cannot represent you before the USPTO and are not subject to agency discipline, but a public forum for complaints is available. Most inventors employ the services of registered patent pract
