# ICOGRADA | Prof. Erik Spiekermann receives Lifetime Achievement Award at the Design Award of the Federal Republic of Germany 2011

URL: https://web.archive.org/web/20110222215608/http://www.icograda.org/news/year/2011_news/articles2088.htm
Source: web.archive.org
Fetched: 20260603-122311
Cycle: 7
Quality: 1.00
Language: en
On-topic: yes
Body: 3998 chars, ~603 words

## Design signals
- top_colors: —
- fonts: About This, Alexa Crawls Starting, Alexa Internet, Case Studies, Communication Design, Crawl Data, Design Award, Design Council, Erik Spiekermann, Federal Republic, First Time, Internet Archive, Jan FEB Mar, New Perspectives, Press Releases, Product Design, TIMESTAMPS The Wayback, The Business, The Design, The German, The Internet, The Man, The Wayback Machine, The World, Wayback Machine
- designers_mentioned: Erik Spiekermann
- gradients: 0

## Body

ICOGRADA | Prof. Erik Spiekermann receives Lifetime Achievement Award at the Design Award of the Federal Republic of Germany 2011 14 captures 22 Feb 2011 - 10 Mar 2025 Jan FEB Mar 22 2010 2011 2012 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Organization: Alexa Crawls Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive. Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period. Collection: Alexa Crawls Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive. Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period. TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20110222215608/http://www.icograda.org:80/news/year/2011_news/articles2088.htm About News Events Features Programmes Resources Members Education Media Contact Facebook Icon Twitter Icon Flickr Icon 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 Newsletter Above: Erik Spiekermann and German Design Council CEO Andrej Kupetz at the 2011 award ceremony. Photo: German Design Council 13 February 2011 Prof. Erik Spiekermann receives Lifetime Achievement Award at the Design Award of the Federal Republic of Germany 2011 Frankfurt (Germany) - Erik Spiekermann is this year's recipient of the Lifetime Achievement Award of the Design Award of the Federal Republic of Germany. The award was presented at a ceremony in Frankfurt on 11 February. Johannes Erler of Factor Design, who interned at Spiekermann's MetaDesign in the early 1900s, has written an engaging profile of the prolific designer and typographer, and the man he describes as "the communication powerhouse." "A font constitutes a nation's culture. Good architecture, good food and good timetables are at stake!" - Erik Spiekermann The Design Award is sponsored by the Federal Ministry of Economics and Technology and given for exceptional international achievements in the field of product design as the "Federal Prize for Good Form" for the first time in 1969. Since 2006, it has been presented annually under the name "Design Award of the Federal Republic of Germany" and is given for outstanding achievements in the fields of product and communication design, as well as to a celebrity from the world of design. Since 2010, an additional endowed prize to encourage up-and-coming new talent has been awarded to a young designer. Nominations for the Design Award are submitted by Ministries for Trade and industry or Senators of the German states or by the German Design Council on behalf of the Federal Ministry of Economics and Technology. For more information, please contact: Rat für Formgebung/ German Design Council Ludwig-Erhard-Anlage 1 60327 Frankfurt am Main T: +49 69 74 74 86 W: german-design-council.de‎ About the German Design CouncilThe German Design Council (Rat für Formgebung) was founded as an initiative of the German Federal Parliament in 1953 to meet the growing need of the business world for information about design. Today, the German Design Council is one of the world's leading competence centres for communication and know-how transfer in the design field. With competitions, exhibitions, conferences, consulting, research and publications, we offer new perspectives for representatives of business and design disciplines. www.german-design-council.de Back ION BRANDING + DESIGN | POWERED BY SMALLBOX CMS Privacy & Copyright Sitemap Newsletter About Icograda Executive Board Secretariat IDA Partners Enquiries Contact 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 Newsletter Calendar Event Archive Photo Archive Feature Galeria Blog Awards Endorsement Icograda Design Weeks IDA Congress INDIGO Iridescent World Design Survey World Graphics Day +DESIGN Document Library Case Studies Career Center Links Members Categories Benefits Fees Log In Overview Members Events Feature Case Studies Project Gallery Overview IDMN Listing About IDMN Press Releases Press Kit
