# Industrial design - Wikiquote

URL: https://en.wikiquote.org/wiki/Industrial_design
Source: en.wikiquote.org
Fetched: 20260603-191917
Cycle: 7
Quality: 1.00
Language: en
On-topic: yes
Body: 21164 chars, ~3418 words

## Design signals
- top_colors: —
- fonts: ARISING OUT, American Design, And How, And That, And What, Applied Science, Architectural Design, Art Education, Decorative Artists, Decorative Arts, Design For, Design Industry, Elementary Color, Encyclopaedia Britannica, Everyday Life, Fashion Designer, File Boxes, Fine Art, Fine Arts, Furniture Design, Good Design, Good Taste, Hill Book Company, Industrial Arts, Industrial Design, Industrial Designs, Industrial Revolution, Machine Art, Material Culture, Modern American Design, Modern Design, Overlook Press, Practical Guide, Ray Eames, Raymond Loewy, Real World, THE USE, Take Care, Ten Years, The Art, The Artist, The Books, The British, The Decorative, The Designer, The English, The Exposition, The Industrial Revolution, The King, The People, The Power, The Practical Draughtsman, The Principle, The Principles, The Real, The Rules, The School, The Society, The Sound, The Studio, The Study, The United States, The Use, The Work, The Works, The World, The Young, This Book, Will Not, Wonderful Things, Years Ago
- designers_mentioned: Clay, Portion, Together
- gradients: 0

## Body

Industrial design - Wikiquote Jump to content From Wikiquote Industrial design is the use of both applied art and applied science to improve the aesthetics, ergonomics, functionality, and/or usability of a product, and it may also be used to improve the product's marketability and even production. In the 19th century this field was originally called "Industrial art," close related to the umbrella term Industrial arts. Quotes[edit] Quotes are arranged in chronological order 19th century[edit] 1800-1850[edit] It appears that all the students who enter the school commence as if they were intended for artists in the higher sense of the word, and are not expected to decide as to whether they will devote themselves to the Fine Arts or to Industrial Design, until after they have completed their exercises in the drawing and painting of the figure from the antique and from the living model. It is for this reason, and from the fact that artists for industrial purposes are both well-paid and highly considered (as being well-instructed men), that so many individuals in France engage themselves in both pursuits. The Art Union; A Monthly Journal of the Fine Arts, Vol 1, No. 20. (September 15, 1840), p. 147 The King of Bavaria has been the first to see the necessity of an edifice constructed solely for Exhibitions of Industrial Art - The Art Union, 1844 Paris, Vienna, Berlin, and, we may now say, London, together with many other cities in which periodical Exhibitions of Industrial Art take place, have not, as yet, any appropriate edifice - for these Exhibitions, but some temporary erection or already - existing building is fitted up for the purpose. When the multitude of productions as impose the necessity of an especial erection, it has been necessarily attended with great expense, which is the more objectionable since it is destined to be removed after a very brief existence. The King of Bavaria has been the first to see the necessity of an edifice constructed solely for Exhibitions of Industrial Art, and has, accordingly, caused to be erected a suitable building, of which we are enable to present an engraving. It was inaugurated on the 25th of last August, the King's birthday. "Exhibition of Industrial Art at Munich" in: The Art Union, Vol 6. Dec. 1844, p. 364. Fine Art then, records by idealised imitation the glorious works of good men, whilst it holds those of bad men up to our abhorrence — it gives to posterity their images, either on the tinted canvass or the sculptured marble — it imitates the beautiful effects of nature as seen in the glowing landscape or the rising storm, and perpetuates the appearance of those beauteous gems of the seasons — flowers and fruits, which, though fading whilst the painter catches their tints, yet live after decay by and through his genius. Industrial Art, on the contrary, aims at the embellishment of the works of man, by and through that power which is given to the artist for the investigation of the beautiful in nature; and in transferring it to the loom, the printing machine, the potter's wheel, or the metal worker's mould, he reproduces nature in a new form, adapting it to his purpose by an intelligence arising out of his knowledge as an artist and as a workman. In short, the adaptation of the natural type to a new material compels him to reproduce, almost create, as well as imitate — invent as well as copy — design as well as draw! George Wallis. "Art Education for the people. No IV. The principles of Fine Art as Applied to Industrial Purposes." In: People's & Howitt's Journal: Of Literature, Art, and Popular Progress, Vol. 3. John Saunders ed. 1847, p. 231. 1850-1900[edit] There is no prima facie reason why cheap things should be ugly, for a die or mould of a good design costs no more than a bad one; but still the fact remains that the objects in use in every-day life are not beautiful, and it is to effect a change in this respect that the Government have established Schools of Design... - William Burges, 1865 INDUSTRIAL DESIGN is destined to become a universal language ; for in our material age of rapid transition, from abstract, to applied, Science — in the midst of our extraordinary tendency towards the perfection of the means of conversion, or manufacturing production — it must soon pass current in every land. Jacques-Eugène Armengaud et al. The practical draughtsman's book of industrial design, 1851, Preface, p. ii-iv. The study of Industrial Design is really as indispensably necessary as the ordinary rudiments of learning. It ought to form an essential feature in the education of young persons for whatever profession or employment they may intend to select, as the great business of their lives; for without a knowledge of drawing, no scientific work, whether relating to Mechanics, Agriculture, or Manufactures, can be advantageously studied. Jacques-Eugène Armengaud et al. The practical draughtsman's book of industrial design, 1851, Preface, p. ii-iv. The triumph of the industrial arts will advance the cause of civilization more rapidly than its warmest advocates could have hoped, and contribute to the permanent prosperity and strength of the country far more than the most splendid victories of successful war. Charles Babbage. The Exposition of 1851, p. xii-xiii. In treating the subject a purpose has been kept in view, viz., to try to explain the principles involved in certain methods employed for the production of ornament, and this in order to guide the industrial designer to sure and certain results. To be successful the processes involved in the production of articles of manufacture must be understood, and to this the earnest attention of all interested in the improvement of manufacture should be directed. The abstract teaching of design is comparatively valueless, and success will only be achieved when to the taste of the designer the skill of the workman is united. W.C. Aiken "Ancient and modern metal-working and ornamentation" in: Journal of the Society of Arts, Vol. 2, The Society (1854) p. 234. Let us, then, take care of that art which is intended to penetrate into the houses of the lowly. In doing this we may rest assured, that that which is intended to embrace a more exalted position will not be forgotten. Let us not lose tight of the sentiment to nobly expressed by the poet — blind yet bold — when he says:— "Beauty is Nature's coin — must not be hoarded, But must be current — and the good thereof Consists in mutual and partaken bliss, Unsavoury in the enjoyment of itself." W.C. Aiken "Ancient and modern metal-working and ornamentation" in: Journal of the Society of Arts, Vol. 2, The Society (1854) p. 234. It has been well observed that the world, more especially the English portion of it, during the last half century, has been in its working dress; that is to say, although we have done some very wonderful things in the way of mechanics, and have produced other things which are marvels of cheapness, yet as regards the production of really beautiful objects, particularly those required in every-day life, we have been behind most other epochs of civilization. Of course there is no prima facie reason why cheap things should be ugly, for a die or mould of a good design costs no more than a bad one; but still the fact remains that the objects in use in every-day life are not beautiful, and it is to effect a change in this respect that the Government have established Schools of Design and the excellent Museum of which I shall have to speak hereafter. Great praise must also be given to the Society of Arts for beginning the movement and carrying it on to the present time; and although the sphere of its action must necessarily be infinitely smaller than that of the Government Schools, yet we should always remember that the initiative of our great English exhibitions of industry came from the Society, and that it is to those exhibitions that we owe the stirring among the dry bones of industrial art which is now ta
