# The Fundamentals of Great UX - Host1Plus Blog

URL: https://web.archive.org/web/20150706012742/http://www.host1plus.com/blog/tutorials/fundamentals-great-ux/
Source: web.archive.org
Fetched: 20260603-193435
Cycle: 8
Quality: 1.00
Language: en
On-topic: yes
Body: 9822 chars, ~1598 words

## Design signals
- top_colors: —
- fonts: About This, Alexa Crawls Starting, Alexa Internet, Crawl Data, Internet Archive, Looking For, Press Releases, Previous Page, Responsive Web Design, Social Media, THE USE, TIMESTAMPS The Wayback, The Content, The Design, The Designer, The Fundamentals, The Importance, The Mobile, The Nature, The Rise, The Use, The User, The Wayback Machine, The Web, The World, United Kingdom, Wayback Machine, Web Designer, Website Design, What They, WordPress Themes, You Can, You Don
- designers_mentioned: —
- gradients: 0

## Body

The Fundamentals of Great UX - Host1Plus Blog 34 captures 22 Oct 2014 - 09 Mar 2026 Jun JUL Aug 06 2014 2015 2016 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Organization: Alexa Crawls Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive. Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period. Collection: Alexa Crawls Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive. Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period. TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20150706012742/http://www.host1plus.com:80/blog/tutorials/fundamentals-great-ux/ HOST1PLUS Login Register Home Hosting Web Hosting From $0.83 per month! View Plans Reseller Hosting From $10.95 per month! View Plans VPS Hosting From $2.50 per month! View Plans Dedicated Servers From $69.00 per month! View Plans Domains Register a Domain Bulk Domain Search Bulk Domain Transfer Products SSL Certificates View Plans Tools Comodo GeoTrust StopTheHacker SpamExperts Softaculous App-Installer About Us Contacts Blog Press Releases Support Center Knowledge Base Tutorials Affiliate Program The Fundamentals of Great UX Kerry Butters Published author & writer on all things web design, tech, SEO, social media & more, writing for some of the world's leading sites. Add to Google+ circles October 16, 2014 No Comments Recent Posts Summer Saver Judita Maslauskaite DDoS Attacks Uncovered Judita Maslauskaite Crowdsourcing – Exploit Your Opportunities Judita Maslauskaite Show all Other Posts By Author 3 Creative Christmas Social Media Campaigns Kerry Butters Why Mobile is Damn Important Kerry Butters 4 Important Factors That Affect Search Rankings Kerry Butters Archive June 2015May 2015April 2015March 2015February 2015January 2015December 2014November 2014October 2014September 2014August 2014July 2014June 2014May 2014April 2014March 2014February 2014January 2014December 2013November 2013October 2013September 2013August 2013July 2013June 2013May 2013April 2013March 2013February 2013January 2013October 2012September 2012August 2012July 2012June 2012May 2012April 2012March 2012February 2012January 2012December 2011November 2011October 2011September 2011August 2011July 2011June 2011May 2011April 2011March 2011February 2011January 2011December 2010November 2010October 2010September 2010August 2010May 2010February 2010December 2009November 2009September 2009August 2009July 2009June 2009May 2009April 2009March 2009 User experience is a design discipline that’s been around for some time now but has recently been the subject of renewed interest within the design community. Whilst it’s always been a consideration, the mobile revolution has meant that UX has had to be reconsidered when designing for the smaller screen. Good UX directs the user around a site, ensuring that the experience is as painless as possible and the buying process for ecommerce sites is flawless. Bad UX can seriously affect traffic and of course your bottom line, as if your site provides a poor user experience, visitors will quickly leave. Modern web users are sophisticated. They expect a site to load quickly (especially on mobile devices), navigation to be logical, a search function to be in place and importantly, users expect to be able to find their way around a site easily through signals that you the designer provides. With that in mind, let’s have a look at the fundamentals of UX that every web designer and developer should be familiar with. #1: Navigation This is by far one of the most important elements of a site to get right. Users that can’t find their way around a site effectively will soon leave, especially if a search box isn’t provided. Navigation requires that clear direction is given and it should ideally also use breadcrumbs so that users can quickly get back to a previous page whilst browsing. The use of breadcrumbs means that users can quickly return to a previous page. Floating menus, drop down menus and hidden menus can be very nice from an aesthetics point of view, but how they appear to the user is far more important. You don’t see as many Flash intro pages as you used to now but these should be avoided for numerous reasons. A Flash ‘gateway’ page has little to no value for SEO. A user has to take an additional step just to enter a site, which discourages them from doing so. They’re just plain nasty! Of course, there are plenty of creative examples of Flash to be found online, but from a UX perspective they’re pretty much worthless. The same could be said of floating and drop down menus. Whilst the latter ensures that the user always has the navigation right in front of them, whatever page they’re on, it can also be highly irritating and unnecessary. When it comes to drop down menus, these are fine so long as they’re well-constructed and don’t disappear as soon as the user moves the curser. #2: Site Speed Site speed is essential to the users of your site and whilst it won’t affect SEO too badly, it does still have an impact. With the rise of responsive sites built to display on any device, it’s been found that many sites which use responsive web design have become increasingly slower. This is often due to poor design in which the full desktop content is sent to a mobile device, rather than tactics such as media queries being used to deliver a pared down version. When it comes to speed, just a few seconds can seriously affect conversions and for the most part, that’s why many of us have websites, so that we can carry out business. Length of time that users said they will wait before abandoning a page in a Kissmetrics survey. In a survey, Kissmetrics found that users have very little patience at all and in fact the majority would leave a site which hadn’t properly loaded within just 6-10 seconds. This, it was found, means that for just one seconds delay in load time, the conversion rates were reduced by 7%. Tips for speeding up your site: Optimise all images so that file sizes are as small as possible. Look at using a CDN (Content Delivery Network) if you have a lot of content. If you’re designing a responsive site, look carefully at how the content is delivered to smaller screen (and displays well). Use GZIP compression on web servers. If you have a WordPress site, use caching plugins such as WP Super Cache to reduce load times. #3: Content is Really King OK, so you’re probably sick to death of the phrase ‘content is king’ already but it does hold true even for UX. For a site to provide a good experience to its user, the content should have some value to them. It must be: Useful – fulfilling the needs of the audience by providing information that’s educational or entertaining, or that solves a problem that the visitor has (or all of the above!). Desirable – in the way that it’s branded. A site that uses colour and other design elements to create a strong brand will attract visitors as it relays a sense of trust and connects with the emotions of the user. Discoverable – we mentioned the importance of navigation above, but it bears repeating. A user that can’t find what they’re looking for on a site will leave so it’s vital that good navigation is used, a search box is included and ideally, a FAQ section. Accessible – to provide good UX you have to do so for everyone, including the disabled. Credible – content should point to sources to back up and reference information. It should be well laid out and easy to read, using headers and sub-headers and it should be constructed with excellent spelling and grammar. It’s important to remember that people read differently on the web; they scan, rather than read in detail as they would print. Information that’s presented in short paragraphs, with plenty of white space and sub-headers will be taken in quickly and won’t bore the reader. You can also use bullets to break information up and you should aim for an average reada
