# AnandTech Forums: Technology, Hardware, Software, and Deals

URL: http://www.anandtech.com/show/8207/google-reveals-details-about-android-l-at-google-io
Source: www.anandtech.com
Fetched: 20260603-194226
Cycle: 8
Quality: 0.98
Language: en
On-topic: yes
Body: 12268 chars, ~1947 words

## Design signals
- top_colors: —
- fonts: And What, Best For, Black Friday, FIFA World Cup, Learn More, MacBook Air, May Not, Open Source, Page Layout, Share This, The Age, The Answer, The Cost, The Day, The Problem, Use This, What Would, Will Not, World Cup
- designers_mentioned: Apple
- gradients: 0

## Body

AnandTech Forums: Technology, Hardware, Software, and Deals Trending Search forums Menu Log in Register Install the app How to install the app on iOS Follow along with the video below to see how to install our site as a web app on your home screen. Note: This feature may not be available in some browsers. We’re currently investigating an issue related to the forum theme and styling that is impacting page layout and visual formatting. The problem has been identified, and we are actively working on a resolution. There is no impact to user data or functionality, this is strictly a front-end display issue. We’ll post an update once the fix has been deployed. Thanks for your patience while we get this sorted. You are using an out of date browser. It may not display this or other websites correctly. You should upgrade or use an alternative browser. AnandTech Forums: Technology, Hardware, Software, and Deals New posts Hardware and Technology CPUs and Overclocking Discussion about CPUs and Microprocessors. Need help with that new CPU? Like to push it to the limits; overclockers welcome here! Threads 78.1K Messages 1.4M Threads 78.1K Messages 1.4M N Question x86 and ARM architectures comparison thread. 14 minutes ago Nothingness Motherboards Discussion about Motherboards Threads 67K Messages 476.8K Threads 67K Messages 476.8K D Question SSD or motherboard issue? Sunday at 11:55 PM Dave3000 Graphics Cards Discussion about Video Products and Graphics Technology Threads 96.1K Messages 1.6M Sub-forums Sub-forums AMD Nvidia Threads 96.1K Messages 1.6M News RX 9070 GRE launches June 1st @ $550 Today at 3:11 AM coercitiv Memory and Storage For DDR3, DDR4, SO-DIMMS, Hard Disks, SSDs, Flash memory, USB drives, and any other sort of memory and storage technology. Threads 22.6K Messages 222.2K Threads 22.6K Messages 222.2K Question Is the cost of RAM going up everywhere? Yesterday at 4:02 PM poke01 Displays Discussion of monitors and display devices Threads 11.2K Messages 110K Threads 11.2K Messages 110K Question Monitor starts at default brightness for one second after monitor powered on or after HDMI/DP handshake! Yesterday at 6:32 AM mikeymikec Power Supplies With high end PCs pushing beyond the KW range, power supplies are more critical than ever. Step on up for PSU discussion. Threads 6K Messages 53.2K Threads 6K Messages 53.2K A Info Power Supply Tier list. A handy reference for helping to choose a quality PSU. 41 minutes ago AMDK11 Cases & Cooling Share your secrets and classic cooling experiences here and find the answer to the age old question, "Which case is best for me?" Threads 46.9K Messages 386.3K Threads 46.9K Messages 386.3K I Discussion The most revolutionary case in a while? Monday at 6:32 AM igor_kavinski Laptops Laptop and Mobile Slate Discussions are happening here. Talk about the latest and greatest tips on which laptop to buy. Threads 24K Messages 175.5K Threads 24K Messages 175.5K M Laptop recommendations - $500 max (refurbs are fine) Sunday at 9:19 PM manly Networking Having trouble setting up your own network? Is server configuration a pain? DSL or Cable Modem giving you fits? From WAN to LAN, discuss it here. Threads 54.6K Messages 352.8K Threads 54.6K Messages 352.8K Question What would cause a site to be slow to load but only for the first try? Yesterday at 9:36 PM Red Squirrel Apple Laptops and Desktops For discussion of all Apple Laptops and Apple Desktop related products. Hackintosh is welcome! Threads 895 Messages 13.1K Threads 895 Messages 13.1K R Question Macbook Air - 13" or 15"? May 5, 2026 ragatha Peripherals & Components Plug ''n'' Play or Plug ''n'' Pray. Sometimes you just have to plug the pain away. If you have questions about your latest peripheral or component we have answers. Threads 18.5K Messages 109.9K Sub-forums Sub-forums Headsets and Headphones Mice Keyboards Threads 18.5K Messages 109.9K H Question New gaming mouse Today at 4:13 AM hardcore_gamer29 Computer Building General computer building discussions, questions, and troubleshooting. This is the place to discuss the latest computer hardware issues and technology. Threads 314.1K Messages 2.5M Sub-forums Sub-forums Pre-Built Desktops Barebones Raspberry Pi and Single Board Computers Home Theater PCs Threads 314.1K Messages 2.5M I PC dedicated for Emulation that is compact Yesterday at 11:25 PM igor_kavinski Consumer Electronics Digital Cameras and Video Digital cameras of all shapes and sizes. Still photography, video, and all related hardware. Threads 5.6K Messages 66.3K Threads 5.6K Messages 66.3K AT Shot of the Day Thread Sunday at 5:46 PM Fenixgoon Console Gaming For everything related to gaming consoles and console games. Discussions and technical support for everything from retro to the current console era. Threads 11.9K Messages 298.3K Threads 11.9K Messages 298.3K Official Playstation 5 thread Today at 1:13 PM JujuFish Mobile Devices Discussions on smartphones, slates, and any mobile gadget that catches your eye. Threads 17.1K Messages 335.3K Threads 17.1K Messages 335.3K R AV1 Decoder Benchmarking on Android Devices Saturday at 1:46 AM roncatech Audio Components Audio equipment for the living room and beyond. Talk about setups, hardware, and your deepest desires centering around the attaining the ideal audiophile listening experience. Threads 10.9K Messages 118.2K Threads 10.9K Messages 118.2K SBS50B Party Speaker speakers won’t charge May 2, 2026 mindless1 TVs For discussions on all things TV, whether you're watching the big game or trying to set up the perfect home theater. Threads 4.1K Messages 25.4K Threads 4.1K Messages 25.4K Question Panasonic's DP-UB450EB BR player comes with a stupid, short-lead, moulded power adapter. Solutions? Apr 28, 2026 Fallen Kell Software Windows We all use software, and most of us use Windows. Here's the place to chat about or get some help with apps designed for the most pervasive desktop OS around. Threads 101.1K Messages 682.8K Threads 101.1K Messages 682.8K Microslop to revoke standalone Microsoft Office 2019 perpetual licenses on 07/23/2026 on iOS/MacOS Today at 11:35 AM mikeymikec Apple For all those Mac users out there, here's the place to be. MacOS, iOS, tvOS, and any Mac specific hardware discussions are all fair game here. Threads 8K Messages 104.4K Threads 8K Messages 104.4K Upgrading another old Apple laptop, the login screen avatars keep getting closer! May 20, 2026 mikeymikec Open Source Open or proprietary, any software designed to run on *nix operating systems. Everything from configuration to compilation. Threads 3.1K Messages 27.1K Threads 3.1K Messages 27.1K T Open source Conferences & meetings all around the globe .... Yesterday at 5:22 PM thedighubs Operating Systems Discuss all flavors of Windows, OSX, Unix, Linux, BeOS, Solaris, OS/2, and virtually all other Operating Systems. Ask for help, or lend a hand to those who need one. Threads 73.9K Messages 549.9K Threads 73.9K Messages 549.9K My journey to successfully game under Linux (and overcome Microsoft's Stranglehold) Sunday at 6:34 PM Triloby Programming A forum dedicated to the dark art of computer programming. Threads 6.8K Messages 56.1K Threads 6.8K Messages 56.1K M Apollo 11 computer code for command and lunar modules extracted and now available online Apr 13, 2026 manly PC Games This is the place for anything gaming on the PC. Bring on the headshots! Threads 20.2K Messages 678.1K Threads 20.2K Messages 678.1K I Unofficial Redneck Rampage remake (only one level. 1.4GB download) Today at 8:35 AM igor_kavinski Distributed Computing Discuss SETI@Home, F@H, FaD, CPDN, SoB, E@H, BOINC and other distributed computing topics here. Threads 40.9K Messages 558.2K Threads 40.9K Messages 558.2K PrimeGrid Challenge Series 2026 Yesterday at 9:31 PM waffleironhead Security For all things related to computer security. Threads 3.7K Messages 25.7K Threads 3.7K Messages 25.7K 7-Zip security flaw found - make sure to update to current version (26.01) for fix Sunday 
