# A Practical Guide to UX Specifications | Chris Kiess

URL: http://chriskiess.net/a-practical-guide-to-ux-specifications/
Source: chriskiess.net
Fetched: 20260603-193611
Cycle: 8
Quality: 1.00
Language: en
On-topic: yes
Body: 13152 chars, ~2271 words

## Design signals
- top_colors: —
- fonts: About This, And How, And What, Best For, Dan Brown, Design Process, Desktop Publishing, Look For, OvEr ThE, Practical Guide, Replacement For, Resources You, Second Edition, Site Map, THE USE, Thank You, The Design, The End, The Future, The New, The Problem, The Space, The Time, The Two, The Use, The User, Three Ways, Usability Testing, Use This, User Research, What Would, Where There, You Can, You Don, You Want
- designers_mentioned: Linear, Together
- gradients: 0

## Body

A Practical Guide to UX Specifications | Chris Kiess A Practical Guide to UX Specifications by Chris Kiess | May 7, 2014 | UX Presentation, UX Specifications, Words | 7 comments So you figured out your design, met all the requirements and managed to create an interface that not only solves the end-users’ problems, but is also aesthetically appealing. You might even have developed a prototype and conducted a little usability testing on the fly. Now what? What do you do with all that work and how do you communicate your design? Communicating design is a critical part of the entire design process and often where things go wrong. Indeed, it is as important as the design itself. You can have what seems to be a perfect design, but if it is not well communicated or you simply cannot explain and justify decisions made, you will sink your design in the space of a single meeting. I have written about this before in: What would Steve do? Five essential elements in presenting UX design This is why your specifications document (or documentation) is so important. They communicate your design to the developers, the stakeholders and often yourself after you have moved on to a different project. Indeed this last point is most important. I can always judge my own specifications by whether or not I can understand the design 3 months later when a developer comes to ask me a question. Now, there is the whole idea of Lean UX and spending less time on these deliverables. But, many organizations rely on these documents as part of a formal or even regulatory process. As much as I would like to get away from updating a set of UX specifications 9 times, I really can’t because my company is regulated by the FDA. (GN ReSound produces Hearing Aids, which are considered medical devices and FDA regulation requires stringent documentation.) The other problem with leaning out your process is the lack of visibility. That is, our deliverables are often seen as evidence of our work and justification of our existence in an organization – despite the fact that most of our deliverables are thrown away by the time development is in its final stages. But Lean UX is a topic for another forum. For the sake of argument, let’s suppose you are in organization where these deliverables are expected. UX specifications and documentation are not very well covered topics in our profession. What should they include? What should they look like? Most importantly, what should you use to build them? The best coverage I have found on this topic is Dan Brown’s book, Communicating Design: Developing Web Site Documentation for Design and Planning. It is now in its second edition, but 4 years old and due for an update (hear that Dan?). Chapter 8 of that book is an excellent overview of the documentation process. But, it doesn’t give you much in the way of tools in putting these documents together. What Goes Into UX Specifications? How you structure your specification documents will largely depend on the client or organization you are working for. The 4 essentials are a title page, an introduction to the feature, annotated wireframes and a version history. But, you can include a lot more such as flow diagrams, conceptual models, site maps and user research conducted prior to or during the design process. For me, it really depends on the project and what the document needs to communicate to the developers and stakeholders. Site maps, conceptual models, personas and the like are truly only necessary when the project is self-contained. For example, I currently work on a platform where I design new features for that platform which is well into its third major version. A site map is not necessary in our specifications and we need only know where the new feature fits into the existing navigation. But, I recently worked on an entirely new feature requiring us to understand the flow of the users. For that, I used a flow diagram and included it as an appendix in the specifications. Here is an example: UX Specifications Example – Personal Fine Tuning So let’s go over the 4 Essential content items for UX Specifications with a few bonus items thrown in. Title Page – You should have a title page and while this might seem a no-brainer, many designers I work with will omit or forget to include it relying, instead, on the title of the file. Including a title page just gives your document a polished and professional look. Remember: First impressions are lasting and you want to have a professional first impression. Introduction – This is where I usually outline the problem this solves for the user. Outlining the problem is important for me because I have found myself working on marketing projects more than once where there was no problem. If you can’t succinctly outline the problem the design solves, you might have another sort of problem. But, I generally spend a little time in this section telling the user what I am going to show and what I will tell them in the remainder of the document. It’s a simple overview. Annotated Wireframes – This is essential and one of the hardest parts of the process because it involves a lot of detail in communicating the functionality of the interface. There are different ways you can do this. But, there is a fine line between giving too much detail and not enough. Too much detail drowns your user and not enough leaves open questions that must be resolved in long email chains or meetings. There isn’t a clear directive on this one. It just takes some experience to annotate with the right level of detail. In fact, this is such a complicated topic, I’ll devote a future post to it. But in a general sense, the annotations should explain the primary functionality, but also secondary functionality such as where navigation items take the user (back buttons, next buttons), how to cancel, how to undo, etc. Versioning – Always document the version and what has changed in each version with a detailed list. This enables you to go back in future versions to determine what decisions were made, when they occurred and where they occurred on the project timeline. There are a few other items I frequently add as well. One item is an open issue section. So instead of including questions on each page for each part of the feature, I line them all up in a section of the specifications so I can keep outstanding problems in a single place (and straight in my mind). Another item I like to include is a demo video to illustrate the interaction in a feature. This works really well on conceptual or new projects and is less necessary on projects where there is an existing platform with similar interactions. There is a link below with a working example of this concept in use. How Do You Put the Specifications Together? This is always a tricky topic because everyone has their favorite software and tools to use in creating UX specifications. There are generally three ways to create specification documents – export directly from the software, use a combination of software platforms to create higher end specifications or use specialized software designed for the task. I’ll cover each briefly. Direct Export Method: There are a number of platforms used in the industry to create wireframes and prototypes such as iRise, Axure and Justinmind. Most of these platforms allow you to export directly from the software to a Word document. For example, if you work in Axure, you have an option to export specifications with a number of settings you choose and annotations you set in advance. The downfall with this approach is that you generally have to do a lot of work in advance to get the specifications you desire and you don’t have a whole lot of options for image manipulation. Axure will export the entire screen at a percentage, but you don’t have the option to crop or highlight smaller areas of the screen. Moreover, exporting the specs to Word limits you as Word is not really well-designed for such tasks. It’s a word processing program, not a 
