# Kerry William Purcell, An Interview with Massimo Vignelli (Published in Grafik Magazine, No. 181, 2009)

URL: https://web.archive.org/web/20120425141534/http://kerrywilliampurcell.tumblr.com/post/2473295932/an-interview-with-massimo-vignelli-published-in-grafik
Source: web.archive.org
Fetched: 20260603-200537
Cycle: 9
Quality: 1.00
Language: en
On-topic: yes
Body: 11708 chars, ~2016 words

## Design signals
- top_colors: —
- fonts: About Contact, About This, Archive The, Beatriz Cifuentes, Central Park, From Wikipedia, Google Earth, Grafik Magazine, His Own, His Work, Internet Archive, Internet Archive The, Kerry William, Kerry William Purcell, London Underground, MASSIMO VIGNELLI, Map Design, Massimo Vignelli, Matter, May Not, Michael Hertz, New York City, New Yorkers, TIMESTAMPS The Wayback, Thames River, The Case, The City, The Designer, The Future, The Grid, The Internet, The London, The Magazine, The Map, The Mobile, The New, The New York, The People, The Problem, The Problem With, The Real, The Relationship, The Subway Map, The Thames, The Things, The Visual, The Water, The Wayback Machine, The Web, The World, The Writer, They Can, This Year, Times Square, Transit Authority, Was Just, Wayback Machine, You Don, You Need, You Want
- designers_mentioned: Massimo Vignelli, Together
- gradients: 0

## Body

8 captures 25 Apr 2012 - 06 Jan 2026 Mar APR May 25 2011 2012 2013 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Organization: Internet Archive The Internet Archive discovers and captures web pages through many different web crawls. At any given time several distinct crawls are running, some for months, and some every day or longer. View the web archive through the Wayback Machine. Collection: Wikipedia Outlinks February 2012 Crawl of outlinks from wikipedia.org started February, 2012. These files are currently not publicly accessible. TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20120425141534/http://kerrywilliampurcell.tumblr.com/post/2473295932/an-interview-with-massimo-vignelli-published-in-grafik Kerry William Purcell, An Interview with Massimo Vignelli (Published in Grafik Magazine, No. 181, 2009) Kerry William Purcell An Interview with Massimo Vignelli (Published in Grafik Magazine, No. 181, 2009) Massimo Vignelli In September of this year, Transport for London (TfL) took the decision to remove the River Thames from Henry Beck’s celebrated Underground map. On the surface, this may not seem like a significant edit of the original design. In fact, in many ways, the removal of the Thames could be seen as entirely consistent with Beck’s decision to disregard the geographical reality of London in favour of diagrammatic map that was simple to read and easy to understand. Yet, for many Londoners the river serves as an important boundary and, as the writer Iain Sinclair once said, without it “our city would have no soul.” In this instance, removing the river was a step too far. The authority received many complaints, and after Boris Johnson, The Mayor of London, became aware of the omission, he called for it to be reinstated immediately. The relationship of a map to the topography it seeks to represent has always been a contentious one. From the earliest maps of the world, through to today’s hand held GPS devices, the way a town, city, or country is represented two dimensionally is imbued with social, political and cultural significance. Yet, the issues surrounding the creation of underground or subway maps present the designer with a rare set of problems. Unlike the streets above, a map of the subterranean world of the underground does not need to be geographically true. To approach it in such a way would only result in a work of utter complexity, inscrutable to anyone but the most determined of passengers. Yet, the map does need to make sense of the labyrinth of intersecting lines and services that criss-cross the city, as well as providing a point of departure that will enable the passenger to find their destination above ground. In short, such a map needs to be both factual and artificial, a work of imagination and reason, an act of creative cartography. Many of the questions sparked by the attempted re-design of the Beck map are familiar to the designer Massimo Vignelli. Author of the celebrated 1972 New York subway map, Vignelli looked to Beck’s original design as a way of making sense of the amalgam of lines, and local and express trains that characterise the New York transit system. ‘The London map is the only map that has inspired me in the creative sense, the others have inspired me on not what to do!’, Vignelli said when we met in his Manhattan studio. ‘That’s because it is not a map. That’s why it’s good. What we needed was a diagram and we did a diagram, not a map. The diagram – or subway map – could not do all the things. You need a diagram about the subway, and then you need a geographical map, you know, with the streets. But if you try to put two things together, it’s a disaster!’ Yet, Vignelli did have to address the problem of establishing a correlation between the subway and the geography of the city. His own River Thames moment came when he decided to remove any reference to Central Park on his design. ‘We did take out Central Park. Because it was so much a problem, because of the compression you need for putting in information’. However, such a move was seen as too severe, so Vignelli took the decision to “compress the park from a rectangle shape, to a square shape.’ He admits that many New Yorkers were “shocked” by this. Ultimately, ‘people know that that isn’t the way. And if they see it that way, they don’t trust the map anymore. But if you don’t have it, it’s great!’ In retrospect, one imagines Vignelli would have liked to have taken this one step further. In 2008, Men’s Vogue produced a limited edition signed reprint of the subway map. Yet, as the whole nomenclature of the lines colours and names had changed since he first produced the map, when first approached by the magazine he only agreed to do it if he could produce a new one. ‘So we did one.’ Vignelli notes, “and it had some kind of schematic geography, with the water, because New York is full of islands and peninsula’s etc. At one point they ran out of blue ink and just added a white background. If I had seen that from the beginning, I would have eliminated the blue completely!’ London is a city of villages, which have merged into the metropolis we know today. By contrast, Manhattan is famously an island of grids. As the designer Michael Beirut noted, because of this, Beck’s design brings a sense of order to the London, while, in contrast, Vignelli’s design was always going to be overshadowed by the strict geometric order above ground. The question is: how do you produce a map that works with the certainties of a geographical system that people are familiar with (streets, avenues etc.). “What we did”, Vignelli notes, “is try to keep it as simple as possible. And as close as possible to reality, to a certain extent, within the boundaries of the system, within the boundaries of the grid we designed. We started with the real thing, with a real geographical map. Then we moved these things around according to the grid. You’re underground, you couldn’t care less were the subway goes. You travel from point “A” to point “B”. If the subway goes in a straight-line, you don’t know that. It doesn’t matter. We tried to be a close as possible to the cross-town lines etc. so we established a grid for all these things. There is a logic throughout.” As with central park, one of the arguments repeatdly levelled at Vignelli’s map was that it failed to connect the subway to geography above ground. This case was made by Michael Hertz, the designer (with the MTA (Metropolitan Transit Authority)) of the map that would eventually replace Vignelli’s in 1979. He noted that, for instance, New Yorkers knew that at “50th Street and 8th Avenue you must walk a long block east to Broadway whereas Vignelli clearly shows it as an intersection.” Yet, what Hertz ignores is that Vignelli did try to bridge the transition between his diagrammatic map and the local area of the station. Like a diver coming up for air, he offered a variety of maps to aid the decompression from train to street. “We had a system map, which is the diagram”, Vignelli notes, “we had geographical map, a verbal map, and we did a forth one which was a neighbourhood map. The system map they did. The neighbourhood map they did in some stations. They never did a geographical map. This was a mistake. Because if you come out of a station, you want to know what streets are around, that’s why you need a geographical map. But if you need just information related to the lines, how to get from point “A” to point “B”, that is the system map. The verbal map was just telling you verbally. If you want to go to Times Square, you take this train, go to Grand Central, and take the shuttle and so on. Therefore, we were really covering all the aspects, the diagrammatic, the verbal, the geographical and the local (neighbourhood map). So they can’t accuse us of not conveying information!” Each map offered a different reading of the immediate environment. For Vignelli, the problem with the current map designed by Hertz/MTA is that it attem
