# Massimo Vignelli dies aged 83 | News | Design Week

URL: https://web.archive.org/web/20140830034944/http://www.designweek.co.uk/news/massimo-vignelli-dies-aged-83/3038509.article
Source: web.archive.org
Fetched: 20260603-195920
Cycle: 9
Quality: 1.00
Language: en
On-topic: yes
Body: 7356 chars, ~1222 words

## Design signals
- top_colors: —
- fonts: AIGA Gold Medal, About This, Achievement Award, All Rights Reserved, American Airlines, Archive The, Around The World, Creative Review, Design Observer, Design Week, Digital Age, GRAPHIC Design, Gold Medal, Graphic Designer, Has Died, His Own, His Work, Identity Most, Internet Archive, Internet Archive The, Jul AUG Sep, Lella Vignelli, Lifetime Achievement, MASSIMO AND LELLA, MASSIMO VIGNELLI, MOST POPULAR, Main Content, Main Content Skip, Massimo Vignelli, Michael Bierut, Milton Glaser, Most Popular, National Museum, Navigation This, New York City, OvEr ThE, Pentagram Partner, Policy Terms, Privacy Policy, Product Design, Related Articles, TIMESTAMPS The Wayback, The AIGA, The Age, The American, The Dawn, The Designer, The Foundation, The Internet, The National, The New, The New York, The Past, The Wayback Machine, The Web, The Work, The World, Unimark International, Vacuum Cleaner, Vignelli Associates, Wayback Machine, Wide Crawl, Years Later, You Think
- designers_mentioned: Huge, Massimo Vignelli, Milton Glaser, Pentagram
- gradients: 0

## Body

Massimo Vignelli dies aged 83 | News | Design Week 28 captures 30 Aug 2014 - 07 Feb 2026 Jul AUG Sep 30 2013 2014 2015 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Organization: Internet Archive The Internet Archive discovers and captures web pages through many different web crawls. At any given time several distinct crawls are running, some for months, and some every day or longer. View the web archive through the Wayback Machine. Collection: Wide Crawl started June 2014 Web wide crawl with initial seedlist and crawler configuration from June 2014. TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20140830034944/http://www.designweek.co.uk/news/massimo-vignelli-dies-aged-83/3038509.article Skip to main content Skip to navigation This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies. Find out more here. X SIGN UP FOR NEWSLETTER ADVERTISE CONTACT US Saturday, 30 August 2014 Sign In Register Cookies Advanced search Home NEWS VOXPOP BRANDING GRAPHICS INTERACTIVE PRODUCT DIRECTORY Awards Top 100 JOBS Post your Job Home NEWS Massimo Vignelli dies aged 83 Wed, 28 May 2014 | By Angus Montgomery Email Share Comments (3) Save Massimo Vignelli has died at the age of 83. He had received letters from around the world following the announcement earlier this month that he was gravely ill. Source: designmilk Massimo and Lella Vignelli in 2012 Vignelli was born in Milan in 1931. In 1966 he moved to New York and founded Unimark International, later leaving to set up Vignelli Associates with wife Lella. He worked on projects including the American Airlines identity and signage for the New York City Subway system. Vignelli received a number of awards throughout his career, including the AIGA Gold Medal and the National Lifetime Achievement Award from the Cooper-Hewitt National Museum of Design. Earlier this month Vignelli’s family announced that he was gravely ill and was spending his last days at home. As reported in Creative Review, his son Luca asked for all those for whom Vignelli was either an influence or an inspiration to write him a letter. According to Pentagram partner Michael Bierut, ‘Luca said that Massimo would be thrilled to get notes of good wishes from people whom he’s touched or influenced – whether personally or remotely – over the years. Luca has visions of huge mail bags full of letters. I know that one of Massimo’s biggest fantasies has been to attend his own funeral. This will be the next best thing.’ Bierut, who started his career at Vignelli Associates, writes on Design Observer, ‘From Massimo I learned never to give up. He was able to bring enthusiasm, joy and intensity to the smallest design challenge. Even after 50 years, he could delight in designing something like a business card as if he had never done one before. ‘It was Massimo who taught me one of the simplest things in the world: that if you do good work, you get more good work to do, and conversely bad work brings more bad work. It sounds simple, but it’s remarkable, in a lifetime of pragmatics and compromises, how easy it is to forget: the only way to do good work is simply to do good work. Massimo did good work.’ Related Articles Profile - Massimo and Lella Vignelli 20 April 2006 Tweet Readers' comments (3) Robin Bugbee | Wed, 28 May 2014 1:05 am A gentle man A tough man A quiet man An opinionated man A versatile man A unique man A demanding man A rigid man A totally flexible man Known by most as the designer of an ultimately silly but beautiful subway map, he should be known for so much more. For about 50 years he and his partner Lella quietly transformed much of graphic design in this country to a European perspective and helped to internationalize what had once been little more than an unskilled trade. Whether you agreed with his ideas or did not: there was never a question that his ideas formed the foundation of his work. I worked with him only once; on a project in my opinion he was badly chosen for (I never felt Massimo understood or had much of a feeling for the pre Target low end mass market). Consequently the work was difficult, at times painful and the eventual result satisfying to none. He wasn't wrong and neither was the client. But they were wrong for each other. For me as a young designer on the client side it was frustrating as well as fascinating and incredibly instructive. At the dawn of the digital age I once saw him debate (it was more a gentle discussion) the virtues of the computer's potential impact on design with Milton Glaser. Massimo predictably for, Milton, not so convinced. Thirty years later, they were both right. Massimo was a giant among us and those of us who knew him if only briefly were illuminated by the glow of his soul. Blessings. Unsuitable or offensive? Report this comment Robert Hageman | Wed, 28 May 2014 11:04 am His taste, dignity and style will be sorely missed by the remaining few still able to fully perceive and appreciate it. A gentle, cultivated, civilized and hugely sensitive man from an age when beauty was still a value worth our understanding and respect. Unsuitable or offensive? Report this comment Deborah Budd | Wed, 28 May 2014 4:30 pm Michael Beirut's full tribute at Design Observer (link above) plus many comments from others who counted Vignelli as friend, teacher and mentor, is worth a read. Unsuitable or offensive? Report this comment Have your say Email Share Comments (3) Save Send me jobs by email LatestJobs Junior Artworker TOMY UK Graphic Designer SSAFA Traffic and Production Manager Comic Relief Graphic Design Assistant - Online Retailer Bondara Design Director Black Diamond Agency Ltd Jobs Search About the Blogs Marketing Week's stable of bloggers offers comment, insight and observations on a variety of topics from the fast-moving world of marketing. But we also want your opinion so please join in. Recent posts Blog roll Marketing Academy official blog Tweets by @Design_Week Related images Most popular Waitrose rolls out new brown sauce packaging – designed by a seven-year-old New Moleskine books let you save your handwriting digitally Mr Kipling overhauls brand and packaging Dyson teases new product launch – is it a robot vacuum cleaner? Volvo updates its identity Most commented Waitrose rolls out new brown sauce packaging – designed by a seven-year-old New Moleskine books let you save your handwriting digitally Mr Kipling overhauls brand and packaging What do you think is the best designed household object from the past 150 years? New-look Birds Eye products hit shelves Most emailed New Moleskine books let you save your handwriting digitally Waitrose rolls out new brown sauce packaging – designed by a seven-year-old Cut & Paste: 21st Century Collage Google buys product design firm Gecko Samsung unveils ‘smartphone for the wrist’ Design Disciplines Branding Editorial Exhibition Furniture Graphics Interactive Interiors Packaging Print Product Retail SUPPLEMENTS Awards Top 100 2014 Creative Survey 2013 ABOUT US RSS FEEDS PREVIOUS ISSUES SITEMAP PRIVACY POLICY TERMS & CONDITIONS COOKIES Site powered by Webvision Centaur Communications Ltd (a member of the Centaur Media plc group) Registered Office: Wells Point, 79 Wells Street, London W1T 3QN. Registered in England, no 1595235 © Copyright - Centaur Communications Ltd - All rights reserved
