# Lella &amp; Massimo Vignelli - Heller Online

URL: https://web.archive.org/web/20120311223011/http://www.helleronline.com/designers/lella-massimo-vignelli
Source: web.archive.org
Fetched: 20260603-195645
Cycle: 9
Quality: 1.00
Language: en
On-topic: yes
Body: 5445 chars, ~829 words

## Design signals
- top_colors: —
- fonts: About This, Achievement Award, Adolf Loos, Albert Museum, Alexa Crawls Starting, Alexa Internet, All Rights Reserved, American Airlines, And When, Angewandte Kunst, Better World, Cleveland Museum, Collection The, Crawl Data, Design Award, Design For, Design One, Feb MAR Apr, Fine Arts, Frank Gehry, GRAPHIC Design, Heller Online Inc, Internet Archive, Knoll International, Lella Vignelli, Lifetime Achievement, MASSIMO VIGNELLI, Mario Bellini, Massimo Vignelli, Matter, Mercedes Benz, Metropolitan Museum, Modern Art, National Park Service, New York City, Philadelphia Museum, Postal Service, Stacking Dinnerware, TIMESTAMPS The Wayback, The American, The Architects, The City, The Internet, The Metropolitan Museum, The Museum, The National, The New, The United States, The Vignellis, The Wayback Machine, The World, This Design, Unimark International, United States National, United States Postal, Veuve Clicquot, Vignelli Associates, Wayback Machine, You Can
- designers_mentioned: Massimo Vignelli, Together
- gradients: 0

## Body

Lella & Massimo Vignelli - Heller Online 18 captures 30 Sep 2011 - 03 Dec 2024 Feb MAR Apr 11 2011 2012 2013 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Organization: Alexa Crawls Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive. Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period. Collection: Alexa Crawls Starting in 1996, Alexa Internet has been donating their crawl data to the Internet Archive. Flowing in every day, these data are added to the Wayback Machine after an embargo period. TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20120311223011/http://www.helleronline.com:80/designers/lella-massimo-vignelli Lella & Massimo Vignelli “Design is one.” – Lella & Massimo Vignelli Lella and Massimo Vignelli are among the world’s most influential designers. They have brought clarity and coherence to innumerable projects. Massimo Vignelli began his training as a 16-year-old draftsman at the Architects Castiglione in Milano. Here he learned Adolf Loos’ axiom that an architect should be able to design everything from the spoon to the city.” Massimo has said, “From that day, I wanted to design everything…and I have…no cities yet, but lots of spoons! Lella Vignelli, born in Udine into a family of well-known architects, had architecture in her blood, and when she met Massimo they discovered a shared vision of design which has since guided all their work. In their 2004 book Design is One, they write: “The basic concept is that the discipline of design is one, and if you can design one thing you can design everything. The methodology is the same no matter what the subject.” According to the Vignellis, design should be “semantically correct, syntactically consistent, pragmatically understandable, visually powerful, Intellectually elegant, and timeless”. Throughout their long and productive career, the Vignellis have put these principles into practice. From 1957 – 1960, after training as architects in Italy, the couple went to the US on fellowships. Here it became clear that their mission was “Better design for a better world.” In products from the Saratoga furniture (Poltranova, 1964) to the Compasso d’Oro-winning melamine stacking dinnerware manufactured for years by Heller, they developed a rigorous, primary, objective design language. The Vignellis settled permanently in the US and in 1965 co-founded the American branch of Unimark International. This design consultancy created distinctive corporate identities for companies such as American Airlines, Ford, Knoll International, the Transit Authorities of New York City and Washington, DC – and for Heller. In 1971, the Vignellis founded their own New York office, Vignelli Associates, through which they have created a range of projects astonishing for its scope and design coherence. These include graphic design programs for the United States National Park Service, Bloomingdales, Lancia, Fratelli Rossetti, The Gugggenheim, the Salone del Mobile, and Benetton; showrooms for Poltrona Frau, Steelcase, Italcenter, Hauserman, and Artemide, interiors for the Minneapolis Museum of Fine Arts, Joseph Magnin, The United States Postal Service, and Saint Peter’s Church in Manhattan; exhibits for the Louvre and BMW; furniture such as the Handkerchief chair (Knoll, 1982-1987), products for the Ciga hotels and Heller, and books for many publishers. Based on the motto, “If you can’t find it, design it,” the Vignellis have also designed their own clothing line. Through their long career, Lella and Massimo Vignelli have taken advantage of their various strengths, working together and separately. It is said that Massimo perceives what could be done, Lella what can be done. Their work is in the permanent collections of museums worldwide, including MoMA, the Metropolitan Museum of Art, and the Cooper-Hewitt Museum. The Vignellis have received rewards too numerous to list: Massimo has won virtually every graphic design award in the world and Lella has won major awards for interiors. In 2003 they received the National Design Lifetime Achievement award. Products The Bellini Chair The UltraBellini Chair Arco Tavollini Gehry Color Cubes The New Gaudi Selene The Vignelli Chair Bocca Kiss Joe Capitello The Frank Gehry Furniture Collection The Frank Gehry Color Collection The Vignelli Collection MB Collection Calla The UltraBellini Chair White The Ultra Bellini Chair Black MB 5 Vignelli Low Table MB 2 MB 1 Vignelli Big Bench Vignelli Cube Sofa Easy Chair Bench Three Sided Cube Left Twist Cube Right Twist Cube Vignelli Chair Warm Grey The Vignelli Chair Black Selene Transparent Arco Black Arco Red Arco White Selene Red Selene White The Ultra Bellini Chair Blue Designers Mario Bellini Frank Gehry Lella & Massimo Vignelli Vico Magistretti Studio 65 William Sawaya Studio De Pas, D’Urbino, Lomazzi Projects BMWORACLE Veuve Clicquot IGEDO Fashion Fair Mar de Bamboo Paperworld Mercedes Benz Center Concept Stern Architects Wikihahn Swarovski Crystal Worlds Lacoste Village Vicenzaoro Gala Dinner Dali – the exhibition Museums The Museum of Modern Art Copper-Hewitt Philadelphia Museum of Art Cleveland Museum of Art Victoria and Albert Museum Vitra Museum Musee des Arts Decoratifs Museum für Angewandte Kunst Die Neue Sammlung. Design in der Pinakothek der Moderne MARTa Herford About Us Contact Imprint/Disclaimer ©2012 Heller Online Inc. All Rights Reserved
