# (PDF) Web 2.0 : A New Tool For Teaching and Learning in Electronic Environment | Surendra kumar Pal - Academia.edu

URL: https://web.archive.org/web/20210814192542/https://www.academia.edu/15831013
Source: web.archive.org
Fetched: 20260603-230841
Cycle: 13
Quality: 0.74
Language: en
On-topic: yes
Body: 25587 chars, ~4244 words

## Design signals
- top_colors: —
- fonts: About The, About This, And More, Archive The, Around The World, Britannica Online, Business Models, Cognitive Science, Computer Science, Customer Review, Design Patterns, Download PDF, Emerging Technology, Encyclopedia Britannica, First Time, For You, Free Ride, Google Apps, Google Maps, How Web, Indian Institute, Intellectual Property, Internet Archive, Internet Archive The, Internet Explorer, Internet For, John Battelle, Jul AUG Sep, Main Content, Matter, More Than Just, New Era, Next Generation, Online Communities, Open Source, Oriented Architecture, OvEr ThE, Popular Books, Project Management, Reilly Media, Rich User Experience, Rounded Corners, Semantic Web, Social Web, Some Web, Standards Watch, Surendra Kumar, THE FORM, THE USE, THE WEBSITE, THE WORK, TIMESTAMPS The Wayback, Than Just, The Book, The Books, The Business, The Case, The Content, The Contribution, The Data, The Definition, The Dog, The Encyclopedia, The End, The Face, The Form, The Foundation, The Idea, The Internet, The New, The Next Generation, The Past, The Time, The Two, The Use, The User, The Wayback Machine, The Web, The Work, The World, The World Around, The World Wide, The Young, Their Life, They Can, Used For, Was Like, Wayback Machine, Web Services, Web Standards, What Happens When, What They, Wide Crawl, Wide Crawl Number, Wide Web, With Web, World Wide Web, You Can, You Could, Your Browser, Your Business, Your Hard Drive
- designers_mentioned: Apple, Together
- gradients: 0

## Body

(PDF) Web 2.0 : A New Tool For Teaching and Learning in Electronic Environment | Surendra kumar Pal - Academia.edu 15 captures 06 Jun 2019 - 02 Nov 2025 Jul AUG Sep 14 2020 2021 2022 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Organization: Internet Archive The Internet Archive discovers and captures web pages through many different web crawls. At any given time several distinct crawls are running, some for months, and some every day or longer. View the web archive through the Wayback Machine. Collection: Wide Crawl Number 18 TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20210814192542/https://www.academia.edu/15831013 Skip to main content Academia.edu no longer supports Internet Explorer. To browse Academia.edu and the wider internet faster and more securely, please take a few seconds to upgrade your browser. Log In Sign Up Log In Sign Up more Job Board About Press Blog People Papers Terms Privacy Copyright We're Hiring! Help Center less Web 2.0 : A New Tool For Teaching and Learning in Electronic Environment Surendra kumar Pal IT and internet have changed the paradigm of the libraries. The libraries in the 21st century are confronted with issues involving constantly increasing information overload, changing patterns of resource management, new and growing technologies, specialized needs and expectations of users, which are threatening the very existence of the usual functioning of libraries. The greate work done by Tim Bernus Lee to discover the W3. Now User wants most freely to himself other than depending on web authentication. Web 1.0 technologies were platform-based whereas Web 2.0 offers the web as a platform old web companies offered products you could run on your Windows, Mac, or Linux computer but the new generation of web companies offers services, which are delivered on the web itself. There are a number of important innovations, which are expected to play a pivotal role in the introduction of Web 2.0. In addition to this, some web site are now capable of carrying out project management functions. The key advantage they have over traditional operating system is that they are mare functional, and they can be run almost every browsers that is available today’s. Another innovation that will be seen in web 2.0 is rich internet application. Show more ▾Show less ▴ Web 2.0 •PaperRank: • Download PDF Abstract: IT and internet have changed the paradigm of the libraries. The libraries in the 21st century are confronted with issues involving constantly increasing information overload, changing patterns of resource management, new and growing technologies, specialized needs and expectations of users, which are threatening the very existence of the usual functioning of libraries. The greate work done by Tim Bernus Lee to discover the W3. Now User wants most freely to himself other than depending on web authentication. Web 1.0 technologies were platform-based whereas Web 2.0 offers the web as a platform old web companies offered products you could run on your Windows, Mac, or Linux computer but the new generation of web companies offers services, which are delivered on the web itself. There are a number of important innovations, which are expected to play a pivotal role in the introduction of Web 2.0. In addition to this, some web site are now capable of carrying out project management functions. The key advantage they have over traditional operating system is that they are mare functional, and they can be run almost every browsers that is available today’s. Another innovation that will be seen in web 2.0 is rich internet application. Research Interests: Web 2.0 107 JOURNAL OF THE YOUNG LIBRARIANS ASSOCIATION. VOL. 05, 2012 Web 2.0 : A New Tool For Teaching and Learning in Electronic Environment Surendra Kumar Pal** Abstract: IT and internet have changed the paradigm of the libraries. The libraries in the 21st century are confronted with issues involving constantly increasing information overload, changing patterns of resource management, new and growing technologies, specialized needs and expectations of users, which are threatening the very existence of the usual functioning of libraries. The greate work done by Tim Bernus Lee to discover the W3. Now User wants most freely to himself other than depending on web authentication. Web 1.0 technologies were platform-based whereas Web 2.0 offers the web as a platform old web companies offered products you could run on your Windows, Mac, or Linux computer but the new generation of web companies offers services, which are delivered on the web itself. There are a number of important innovations, which are expected to play a pivotal role in the introduction of Web 2.0. In addition to this, some web site are now capable of carrying out project management functions. The key advantage they have over traditional operating system is that they are mare functional, and they can be run almost every browsers that is available today’s. Another innovation that will be seen in web 2.0 is rich internet application. Keywords: Web 2.0 Introduction: What is Web 2.0 ? Web 2.0 is term that was introduced in 2004 and refers to the second generation of the World Wide Web. The term "2.0" comes from the software industry, where new versions of software programs are labeled with an incremental version number. Like software, the new generation of the Web includes new features and functionality that was not available in the past. However, Web 2.0 does not refer to a specific version of the Web, but rather a series of technological improvements. Web 2.0 is the term given to describe a second generation of the World Wide Web that is focused on the ability for people to collaborate and share information online. Web 2.0 refers to the transition from static HTML Web pages to a more dynamic Web that is more organized and is based on serving Web applications to users. Other improved functionality of Web 2.0 includes open communication with an emphasis on Web-based communities of users, and more open sharing of information. Over time, Web 2.0 has been used more as a marketing term than a computer-science-based term. Blogs, wikis, and Web services are all seen as components of Web 2.0. It was previously used as a synonym for Semantic Web, but while the two are similar, they do not share precisely the same meaning. Some examples of features considered part of Web 2.0 are listed below:  Blogs - also known as Web logs, these allow users to post thoughts and updates about their life on the Web.  Wikis- sites like Wikipedia and others enable users from around the world to add and update online content.  Social networking - sites like Facebook and MySpace allow users to build and customize their own profile sand communicate with friends. *LIBRARY, Indian Institute of Science Education and Research IISERTrivandrum Kerala, JOURNAL OF THE YOUNG LIBRARIANS ASSOCIATION. VOL. 05, 2011  Web applications - a broad range of new applications make it possible for users to run programs directly in a Web browser. Web 2.0 technologies provide a level user interaction that was not available before. Websites have become much more dynamic and interconnected, producing "online communities" and making it even easier to share information on the Web. Because most Web 2.0 features are offered as free services, sites like Wikipedia and Facebook have grown at amazingly fast rates. As the sites continue to grow, more features are added, building off the technologies in place. So, while Web 2.0 may be a static label given to the new era of the Web, the actual technology continues to evolve and change. Concept of Web 2.0 As such, Web 2.0 draws together the capabilities of client- and server-side software, content syndication and the use of network protocols. Standards-oriented web browsers may use plug-ins and software extensions to handle the content and the user interactions. Web 2.0 sites provide users with information storage, creation, and dissemina
