# Ernest Hemingway is an example of minimalist writing that indicates flexibility in using relevant phrases shown in his book Research paper for students

URL: https://web.archive.org/web/20230325081550/https://campuscrosswalk.org/ernest-hemingway-is-an-example-of-minimalist-writing-that-indicates-flexibility-in-using-relevant-phrases-shown-in-his-book/
Source: web.archive.org
Fetched: 20260603-233328
Cycle: 14
Quality: 0.73
Language: en
On-topic: yes
Body: 11987 chars, ~1905 words

## Design signals
- top_colors: —
- fonts: About The, About This, And How, Ernest Hemingway, Feb MAR Apr, Great Depression, His Own, Information Privacy, Inter, May Not, Middle Class, Minimalist Writing, Oak Park, POLICY TERMS, Policy Terms, Privacy Policy, Privacy Policy Terms, Related Posts, TIMESTAMPS The Wayback, The Attack, The Concept, The Future, The Great Depression, The House, The Importance, The Key, The Language, The Machine, The Minimalist, The Passion, The Progress, The STORY, The State, The Story, The Technique, The Time, The Top, The War, The Wayback Machine, The Writer, They Can, They Want, Wayback Machine, What They, You Think
- designers_mentioned: —
- gradients: 0

## Body

Ernest Hemingway is an example of minimalist writing that indicates flexibility in using relevant phrases shown in his book Research paper for students 13 captures 25 Sep 2022 - 21 Jun 2025 Feb MAR Apr 25 2022 2023 2024 success fail About this capture COLLECTED BY Collection: Wikipedia Eventstream TIMESTAMPS The Wayback Machine - https://web.archive.org/web/20230325081550/https://campuscrosswalk.org/ernest-hemingway-is-an-example-of-minimalist-writing-that-indicates-flexibility-in-using-relevant-phrases-shown-in-his-book/ Skip to content Campuscrosswalk HOME Research paper Legal information Privacy policy Terms & Conditions Contact Campuscrosswalk HOME Research paper Legal information Privacy policy Terms & Conditions Contact Ernest Hemingway is an example of minimalist writing that indicates flexibility in using relevant phrases shown in his book Ernest Hemingway is an example of minimalist writing that indicates flexibility in using relevant phrases shown in his book Ernest Hemingway is an example of minimalist writing that indicates flexibility in using relevant phrases shown in his book, “A Farewell to Arms” in which he efficiently makes use of each explanatory detail in the story. Another text that differs with Hemingway’s writing is of John Steinbeck, who writes in a much more complex manner, making the reader notice informative details, shown in “The Grapes of Wrath.” Steinbeck makes sure the minute details are crucial yet limited, both Steinbeck and Hemingway successfully deliver their stories, however they adopt practices that is proficient to their target readers and their writing ability. Steinbeck aims attention at inter-chapters which produce a clear understanding of detail and how his writing defines this, whereas Hemingway adopts minimalism to provide liberty to the reader in order to build their understanding of the plot themselves. Hemingway is skilled at not wasting limited writing space to any futile elements of the storyline. This method is shown predominantly in short sentences, “I did not say anything. I supposed it would be worse.” (chapter 4). This quotation is very short and candid, Hemingway does not focus on the contextual backgrounds of the characters; other writers typically extend their writing about the character’s lives to increase the reader’s understanding. It is very evident in ‘The Grapes of Wrath’, the portrayals of characters do not have substantial roles. The amount of detail Steinbeck explains about ‘Muley Graves’, a trivial character in the story, helps the reader to understand the connections he has with the other characters. Steinbeck writes in nine pages describing the trial that sent Graves out of sight, hiding in Tom’s deserted home, and this delivers relevant material for the reader to grasp the state Oklahoma farmers were at the time of hardship. “Kind a gover’ment we got that leans on us fellas is the ‘safe margin a profit (…) an’ gonna be a straw boss on lan’ his own folks used to farm” (chapter 5). It implies the destruction of Muley’s home and the confiscation of his lands. This portrayal is necessary since it discloses the Grave’s family’s circumstance, in which later they become central characters, contrasting in the technique that Hemingway follows. Hemingway’s minimalist practice is his word preference, he does not use complex phrases, “I had been driving and I sat in the car and the driver took the papers in” (chapter 7). By keeping his wording unpretentious, he debatably conveys his thoughts visibly. Eventually, the writer’s aim is to suggest their idea that is in their mind hoping to deliver his thinking to their reader via the choice of words. It is the writer’s duty to guarantee their reader that their narration is revised by the writer, who knows more about the focus than he is including in the plot (Karl 1985) . Hemingway pays more importance in the actual message of the plot, rather than amplifying his writing ability, he remains exact to his minimalist technique and achieves in demonstrating strong images without using any sort of complex language. Usually, the expression of words that are not identified as well is at times desirable for writers to develop the momentum of the sentences, which Hemingway accomplishes to reveal his opinions whilst keeping every element minimal and uncomplicated. This method does not stipulate the reader to be troubled by obstacles, it in fact allows for the smooth movement of the message to be understood. Hemingway creates the reading practice effective just like the plot that he produces is simply processed by his readers. “A great deal of the language in Steinbeck’s work can be over-inflated, making it less interesting to read” Barth (2013). Barth states a thought-provoking point, in studying ‘The Grapes of Wrath’, it is hard to search for any mistakes in Steinbeck’s writing. Barth could possibly be stating to those texts that are not revealed as noticeably as Hemingway’s writing. Steinbeck deliberates that over-the-top sentences are usually required, but not compulsory. Like Hemingway, he distinguishes that the top writers know how every phrase is vital to depict clearly to the reader. Steinbeck uses uncomplicated lexis when he describes where the characters are based in California, “on the edges of the towns, in fields, in vacant lots, the used-car yards, the wreckers’ yards, the garages with blazoned signs” (chapter 7). Here, he implies the minimalism of writing being his preference of constructing the complete picture for his readers. Majority of the detail is articulated using inter-chapters, delivering the concept of the narrative, Hemingway proclaims on employing this image by clarifying this in significant detail. Hemingway overthrows Steinbeck to connect better with his readers, even the complicated descriptions are illustrated in ease. Some writers to boast their descriptions which various readers may not be used to, however Hemingway battles this trend and remains with his minimalist portrayal. In ‘The Farewell to Arms’, Henry and his colleagues are ruined, and this is expressed in a very natural way, connecting to his reader’s sentiments, rather than intuition. “In the jolt of my head I heard somebody crying. I tried to move but I could not. I heard the machine-guns and rifles firing across the river and all along the river” (chapter 9). This is a complex scene where numerous things are underway at once, but Hemingway does not avert from his simple approach, this should be holistically read to note the easiness the minimalist method marks. An intense picture that is shaped in the mind of the reader, is understood by not using difficult language. Whereas Steinbeck writes creatively just like Hemingway but uses a tough writing format, “A small wooden house dominated the camp ground, and on the porch of the house a gasoline lantern hissed and threw its white glare in a great circle” (chapter 16). The lantern is personified making the reader imagine the lantern seem expressive, whereas if it were Hemingway, he would write it as “the lantern floodlit the entry.” This sentence is very intense and successfully illustrates the flame, entirely different from Hemingway’s usage of imageries. Whilst Hemingway’s writing philosophy relies in minimalism , Steinbeck concentrates on inter-chapters that are put in inside large chapters which muddles the plot but improves the level of detail that permits Steinbeck to be in control of the plot, instead of making the reader do the hard work like Hemingway does. It is very difficult to track the plot by using inter-chapters as they disrupt the flow; the reader is preoccupied for many parts throughout the novel and then thrown right into the key storyline again is confusing. But this is an apt technique for ‘Grapes of Wrath’, since the inter-chapters are representative of the hardships the family of Joad encounter to California. In fact, the inter-chapters provide the reader an interpretation of his family’s hist
